Centuries ago, in the time we now call the Dark Ages, whole regions of the world were undiscovered. There were pockets of civilization, each with their own races and cultures. One such region was Kakha-bad, a dark land at the end of the earth.\n\nAlthough several warlords had tried, Kakhabad had never beenruled. All manner of evil creatures, forced from the more civilizedlands beyond the Zanzunu Peaks, had gradually crawled into Kakha-bad, which became known as the Verminpit at Earth End.\n\nCivilization and order had spread throughout the rest of the knownworld ever since the discovery of the Crown of Kings by Chalanna theReformer, of Femphrey. With its help, Chalanna became Emperor ofthe largest empire in the eastern world. This magical Crown hadmysterious powers, bestowing supernormal qualities of leadershipand justice on its owner. But Chalanna's own ambitions were not ofconquest. He wished instead to establish peaceful nation-states, aligned to Femphrey. Thus in his wisdom he passed the fabled Crownfrom ruler to ruler in the neighbouring kingdoms, and, with the helpof its magical powers, one by one these lands became peaceful and prosperous.\n\nThe path was set. Each ruler would own the Crown of Kings for afour-year period in which to establish order within his kingdom andfall in with the growing Femphrey Alliance. So far the kingdoms ofRuddles tone, Lendleland, Gallantaria and Brice had taken their turnsunder the rule of the Crown. The benefits were immediate. War and strife were virtually unknown.\n\nThe King of Analand duly received the Crown of Kings amid greatceremony, and from that day onwards, the development of Analandwas ensured. No one quite knew how the Crown of Kings could have such an enormous uplifting effect on a whole nation. Some said it was divinely inspired some that its power was merely in the mind. Butone thing was certain its effects were unquestionable. All was wellin Analand, until the night of the Black Moon.\n\nThe King was the first to discover that the Crown was missing.Carried off on that starless night by Birdmen from Xamen, theCrown was on its way to Mampang in the outlaw territories of Kakhabad. News came from the Baklands that the Crown was beingcarried to the Archmage of Mampang whose ambitions were to make Kakhabad his kingdom.\n\nAlthough Kakhabad was a dangerous land, it was in itself little threatto the surrounding kingdoms. The lack of rule meant it had no armyand its own internal struggles kept it permanently preoccupied. But with the Crown of Kings to establish rule, Kakhabad could potentiallybe a deadly enemy to all members of the Femphrey Alliance.\n\nSuch was the shame that fell on Analand for the loss of the Crown thatall benefits from two years under its rule soon disappeared. Law,order and morale were breaking down. The King was losing theconfidence of his subjects. Neighbouring territories were looking suspiciously across their borders. There were even whisperings of invasions.\n\nOne hope remained. Someone - for a military force would neversurvive the journey - must travel to Mampang and rescue the Crownof Kings. Only on its safe return would the dreadful curse be lifted from Analand. You have volunteered yourself for this quest and yourmission is clear. You must cross Kakhabad to the Mampang Fortressand find the Crown!;1
You awake at sunrise. After dressing, you breakfast on bread and goat's milk and collect your belongings. Outside, the Outpost Settle-ment is stirring: the women folk emerge to wash and prepare their rmeals as the day's guard takes over.\n\nEyes follow you as you leave your hut and walk towards the Shamu-tanti Wall. The frontiers people are well aware of your mission and asmall crowd of well-wishers follows some distance behind you.\n\nBefore you stands the Cantopani Gate. Guarded constantly by Sight-master Warriors, chosen for their powers of telescopic vision, the Gate is the final doorway between Analand and Kakhabad. Oncemore you check your pack.\n\nSatisfied that your preparations are complete, you nod to the Sight-master Sergeant. For the last time he glances at the look-out atop thegate, who signals the all-clear. The Sergeant orders the bolt to bewithdrawn. A doorway opens up in front of you and you get your firstview of the Shamutanti foothills, the first stage of your journey.\n\nThe Sight master Sergeant strides over and grasps your hand. 1 willnot wish you a safe journey, for the way ahead will not be safe.Kakhabad is a treacherous land inhabited by devils. But this youalready know,\n\nTake the path ahead to Cantopani, a small settlement of traders -although most are rogues and thieves which you should reachwithin the hour. From Cantopani onwards there are three routesthrough Birritanti to Khare, acityporton the Jabaji river. From Khareyou must cross the Baklands, which are unknown, it is said that dayand night in the Bakiands are controlled not by the sun but bysupernatural forces and bear in mind also that, from Khare onwards, your progress will be watched\n\nHis warnings do little to inspire confidence in you. He continues: ButI have observed your training and you are indeed a worthy champion.I wish you luck and success with your quest. My thoughts, and thegood wishes of all the peoples of Analand, will be with you. With Libra on your side may you live lo lift the curse and depression which crack our kingdom\n\nYou shake his hand, thank him for his good w ishes and step up to theGate. Resolutely, you pass through the doorway. The faces of the folkwatching your departure reveal the hopes that rest with you and withthe success of your quest.\n\nWith a wave, you turn and face the hills. The early morning air is crispand the rising sun paints the hills in colours of natural beauty whichconceal the devilry ahead.Setting off determinedly, you follow the path. Your quest has begun! Turn to 178.;178
As you draw your weapon, you hear a hissing noise and the body of a huge, two-tailed SERPENT materializes before your eyes. One of it's tails is wrapped around your arm and now, with a flick, the creature sends you flying into the undergrowth. Lose 1 stamina point. You pick yourself up and face the creature. Resolve your combat\n\nSERPENT 		AP 7	 stamina 8.\n\n If you win, you may continue through the bush until you reach apoint where the undergrowth thins and becomes a waist-high grass-land. Turn to 105.;105;enemies=Serpent-7-8
Following the passage down for some distance, you reach a T-junction where you may turn left (turn to 63) or right (turn to 26).;63,26
The cage door is firmly locked. If you have a key with you, you may try using it on the door by subtracting 10 from the number on the key and turning to that reference, or you may try a spell:\n\nGOP	OOP	BAM	PEP	RAZ\n443	409	320	429	360\n\n Alternatively, you may try breaking the lock (turn to 142).;142;spells=GOP-443,OOP-409,BAM-320,PEP-429,RAZ-360
You ask what sort of teeth the bag contains, but he will only tell you 'creature teeth' and he certainly will not trust you to look through the bag. He will charge you 3 Gold Pieces for the bag of teeth. Buy if you will, then turn to 280.;280
As you tread carefully along the passage, dust falls from the lowceiling. Precarious wooden beams hold the walls back and you stumble and curse as your foot strikes one of the beams. Suddenly a pile of rubble falls from the ceiling in front of you and a cracking of wood stops you cold. The roof is collapsing! Will you turn and run back to the door (turn to 66) or run on ahead (turn to 128) to avoid thefalling rocks?;66,128
Running ahead quickly, you are eventually out of range of the annoying little creatures. You follow the path for the rest of the afternoon until you reach a point where you can see that it is runninginto a hill village. Proceed by turning to 28.;28
You settle down and relax on the bed. Outside the inn there is accommodation and you spring up as several Svinns burst into your roomand surround you. Before you can react, two grasp your hands and you are marched from the inn to a hut at the edge of the village. Turnto 71.;71
You may continue your journey either by following the path into the valley (turn to 164) or by taking the high path up into the hills (turn to 57 );164,57
Eventually the path peters out and ahead of you is a wood. A sign post, reading to a Lianna, points into the wood. Will you se toff into the woods (turn to 150) or return to the junction and con-tinue heading northwards as you were before (turn to 46)?;150,46
You pull out your bamboo pipe and begin to play. Somehow the unseen musicians adapt their tune to accommodate you and playaway merrily for half an hour or so. You may add 3 stamina points and 1 luck point for your restful encounter. Then you pick yourselfup, leave the hut and make your way out of the village. Turn to 196.;196
As they see you, they all point and gabble excitedly to one another. One of them rises into the air and flics across, hovering over you to take a closer look. Will you attempt to speak with him (turn to 113) orwill you hold your ground and prepare to take defensive action (turn to 203)?;113,203
You follow a path leading sharply downhill into a narrow valley. You cross a stream on a wooden bridge and start to climb the next hill. Half-way up, you hear twigs break in the undergrowth and suddenlya large creature - about the size of a bear - stands before you. It hasblack and white fur, and a long bushy tail which trails out behind it.This animal bars your way and is snarling menacingly at you. Will youprepare to attack it (turn to 252) or try to edge round it peacefully (turnto 236)?;252,236
Outside the village you climb up into the woods. You find a suitable sheltered spot not far from another path. Will you camp for the night(turn to 108) or continue through the night (turn 49)?;108,49
As the dying Ogre is heaving its last breath, you investigate the room.You try grinding some of the black rock as the creature was doing but you cannot turn the handle. However, two valuable gems have already been processed and are lying on the table. You may take these with you. Each is worth 10 Gold Pieces but if you wish to buy anything with them, you will not be given change. In other words, i twill cost you a whole gem to buy an item costing, for instance, only 2 Gold Pieces. You may now leave the room and the cave, and return to the junction (turn to 144).;144
The passage slopes downhill and you soon reach a fork where you may go either right (turn to 174) or left (turn to 151).;174,151
'In this wood I have collected all sorts of magical artefacts,' she says. 'Release me from this cage and I will give you three useful items.' Will you try to free her (turn to 4) or search for the items anyway (turn to 23 ) ?;4,23
You sit down and eat and admire the fine view of the surrounding hillside. If this is your first meal today, add 2 stamin a points. If youhave already eaten since leaving AnaIand, add only 1 stamina point. When you are ready to continue, turn to 168.;168
The path winds up and over the hill and you stop and marvel at agrassy verge in which are growing some of the most beautiful and delicate flowers you have ever seen. Turn to 40.;40
The creature is a SKUNKBEAR and, when you draw your weapon, it raises its tail, releasing a nauseating odour. The smell is horrendous, but you must fight:\n\nSKUNKBEAR 		skill 7	 stamina 5\n\nThe effect of the smell is so powerful that you must deduct 2 points from your dice roll each time you roll for Attack Strength. If you beat the creature, turn to 193.;193;enemies=SKUNKBEAR-7-5
You find a quiet place to rest outside the village. Away from the bustle of the festival of youth you are able to get a good night's sleep. The Minimite curls up near you. You may eat provisions before you go tosleep and add 2 stamina points (1 point if you have already eaten). Add 3 stamina points for the rest. Then turn to 67.;67
Roll 1 die *This is the price, in Gold Pieces, that the merchant is asking for the pipe*. If you will pay this price, purchase the instrument. Turn next to 280.;280
A TROLL guard uses this hut as his sentry post. He patrols the areafor ten minutes and then sits in his hut for twenty, throughout theday. With a little luck, you will pass by him during one of histwenty-minute rests. If you rolled:\n1 or 2		 Turn to 245\n3 or 4		 Turn to 69\n5 or 6 		 Turn to 99\nIf you Tested your Luck and were Lucky, turn to 167. If you were Unlucky, refer to your single die roll and proceed as instructed above.;245,69,99,167
The crashing shaft behind you makes you run faster along the black passage. Suddenly you gasp as your foot fails to touch the ground below and you fall downwards into a pit! You may cast a spell:\nSUD	FAL	RIS	ZEN	SUS\n290	399	439	330	424\nIf you know none of these spells, or prefer not to cast one, turn to 277.;277;spells=SUD-290,FAL-399,RIS-439,ZEN-330,SUS-424
You plead with your goddess - but nothing happens! You try again,but she appears not to be listening. A short time later, your captorsbundle you out of your cage and towards the large pot, warming overthe fire. Three of them pick you up and heave you into the water,which is now uncomfortably warm. Then it happens . . *Dark clouds rumble in low over the camp. When they are directlyoverhead they release a torrential downpour which douses the fireand cools your bath* Your bindings slide loose and you are able toscramble from the pot. Libra has not ignored you! The Head Hunters,sensing something supernatural, have scattered into the woods andyou are now free to escape. But you may not call on Libra again in thispart of your adventure to help you. Not until you reach the city ofKhare will she listen to you.You collect your belongings and run off into the woods. Turn to 254.;999
You turn down [he passage and follow' it cautiously for severalminutes. You stop to listen and, in the distance, you can hear a lowrumbling. You wait to see what happens. The rumbling gets louderand your hair stands on end as you see a large, rounded boulderrolling swiftly down the passage towards you! This rock is almost aperfect fit in the tunnel and its speed is increasing as you dither. Willyou use your magic to help you:GUM BAM WAL FIX SIT367 446 323 343 391Or will you try some other means of escape (turn to 83)? You may callon Libra's help if you have not yet summoned her (turn to 53);999
By the bridge is a small wooden hut. As you approach, an uglyhunch-backed creature emerges and stands between you and thebridge, barring your w r ay. In a gruff voice he speaks to you:'Halt stranger' If you wish to passTwo answers must you give Vancass /The guardian of the bridge has dark, glaring eyes but looks no matchfor you physically, although you suspect he may have magicalpowers. Do you w f ish to try answering his questions (turn to 41) orwill you instead retrace your steps and take the other path dow n intothe valley (turn to 38)?;999
You walk into the village. Young Hill Dwellers pass you and stare atyour strange clothes. Their own attire is rough by comparison andeveryone wears their hair long, but piled up on their heads. You passwithout incident into the centre of the village. Will you look for an innfor the night (turn to 211) or find an ale-house and relax (turn to 266)?;999
If you offer him an artefact w'hich you have found on your travels, hewill accept it, offer you a mug of ale and chat to you (turn to 191), Ifyou cannot offer him an artefact, you must leave immediately andhead either for the inn (turn to 92) or out of the village (turn to 21).;999
You rise early to leave Dhumpus. Turn to 208,;999
Did you eat at all on the first day of your journey since you leftAna land? If not, you are feeling very hungry and must lose 3stamina points. Now turn to 246,;999
You press on through the grass and, after half an hour or so, youreach the river-bank, well upstream of the village you were avoiding.You notice that your backpack feels lighter than normal and you takeit off to examine it. Looking inside, you find that you have lost twoitems of equipment! You must cross off your Adventure Sheet any twoartefacts that you have collected on your journey (but gold and/orProvisions only if you have nothing else to lose).As you search for the missing items, the tops of the grasses bendtowards you and wrap themselves around your bag, belt and boots.You realize you have been walking through PILFER GRASS whichis able to pickpocket items from passing travellers. These two itemsare now lost for ever. Turn to 231.;999
You explain that you are travelling to Khare and ask him for advice onthe way ahead. I myself have never left this village, says the man, but you have two paths ahead. My advice, though, is not free. For 2 Gold Pieces I will tell you what I know, If you accept his offer, pay him the money and turn to 225. If you refuse and wish to press onwards, turn to 81.;225,81
You pass along the main path through the village and stop outside ahut where several Hill Dwellers are sitting and eating. They are deepin discussion about something. Will you introduce yourself (turn to 86)or ignore them and continue (turn to 106)?;999
You stop at the edge of the village and prepare to bed down for thenight. You may eat provisions if you have any. If you do so you mayadd 2 stamina points if this is your first meal of the day (1 point if youhave already eaten). You soon drift off but are awakened rudely bythree Svinns who hold you to the ground, pinning your arms. Theycarry you to a small hut at the edge of the village. Turn to 71.;999
Did you eat at all yesterday? If not, you must lose 3 stam in a points asyou are now very hungry. Continue by turning to 147.;999
Tm sure you would, I'm sure you would!" chuckles the little creature.'But I will come anyway/ You try to swat it away but it is much tooquick for you. Faced with no alternative, you continue down the hillwith Jann who has hitched a ride on your shoulder. Turn to 111.;999
The path drops sharply downhill into the valley and then up the otherside. The going is very tiring and you must lose 2 stamina points.Half-way up the hill is a clearing in which a small wooden hut stands.Throw one die and turn to 23 after you have done so. You may, if youwish, Test your Luck although you must do this before turning to 23.;999
The room is quite large and is evidently a storeroom of some kind. Inone corner is a pile of black rocks, and more rocks are held in a bucketnear by, these ones glistening dully in the flickering candlelight. Inthe centre of the room is a strange-shaped mechanical apparatus -perhaps a press or stone-cutter of some kind - and this is beingoperated by a large, powerful OGRE, He is dropping stones in at oneend and turning a metal handle, which crunches the rock. As youenter, the Ogre stops and turns towards you, growling fiercely. Willyou run from the room and out of the cave {turn to 144) or will you facethe creature (turn to 285);999
You follow the path carefully downwards, trying to avoid breakingbranches as you go. If you wish to stop along the way to eatProvisions, turn to 180. If you would rather press on, turn to 133.;999
The hunchback chuckles and asks his first question:* A witch held in captivityLives in the woods * First tell to meIf you know of this cunning dameHow is she known what is her name?"What will your answer be:Allina? Turn to 238Allanna? Turn to 253Alianna Turn to 143If you do not know her name, you may Test your Luck , If you areLucky, you may guess one of the names above. If you are Unlucky orif you would prefer not to Test your Luck f turn to 59.;999
You walk up to the fire in the centre of the village and call out loudly.There is no response. As you wait for some sign of life you begin tofeel dizzy. Too late, you realize that the fumes from the fire areoverpowering you! You fight to keep consciousness, but withoutsuccess, and you slump to the ground. Turn to 279.;999
The broadsword is a fine weapon and you are amazed at yourbargain. You may use the sword to fight and may add i point toAttack Strength when in use. Turn to 126,;999
The key opens the lock and you open the cage door to release her. Shesprings from the cage, 'Stranger, I am indebted to you/ she thanksyou. 'And Alianna will reward you!' Do you want a magical item (turnto 248) or an aid in combat (turn to 122)?;999
Did you eat at all yesterday? If you ate at the inn or took Provisions,you suffer no penalty, but if you have not eaten during the day youare now hungry and must lose 3 stamin a points.There are two ways on from the village of Krista t anti. Choose yourpath by turning either to 125 or 226.;999
You continue along the path for most of the afternoon until you reacha gate which is ajar. Turn to 234.;999
The Goblin senses your defiance and rises, with a large stone club inhis hand. You may fight him:GOBLIN SKILL 7 STAMINA 6Turn to 186 if you win. Alternatively, you may cast a spell:RAZ BAM TEL ZAP YAC328 397 309 438 289;999
You chat to her and drink your - or rather her - tea. Suddenly a paingrips your stomach. You wince and cough and are horrified to findyou are starting to seize up! Desperately you try to keep moving, butthe paralysis drug takes effect, 'Ho, suspicious stranger!' she laughs,'1 can count on travellers suspecting my witchcraft!' You are powerlessk> watch as she goes through your bag looking for magical artefacts. Ifyou have a page from a Spell Book, turn to 77, Otherwise she will takeany two objects in your bag which you know are useful in magic spellsand then she magically transports you and your miniature compan-ion (together with the rest of your possessions) out into the woodswhere the drug eventually wears off (turn to 232).;999
You may rest if you wish to eat Provisions (if you have any) beforeyour all-night trek. If you take a meal, you may add 2 stamina pointsif you have not already eaten today but only 1 stamina point if youhave eaten anything. Then you set off. You soon leave the woodsfollowing an uphill path and you pause again at daybreak to get yourbearings. You must lose 2 stamina points for travelling all nightwithout sleep. Turn 1036.;999
Around the creature's neck is a collar which interests you. It isstudded with green gems and looks quite valuable. You may take it ifyou wish and then you had better leave the village. Turn to 196.;999
You travel downhill along the valley for an hour, but then the pathturns uphill again. The hill you are now climbing is not too steep andas noon approaches you are again on a descending path . You maystop and eat Provisions if you wish and may add 2 stamina points ifyou do. Further along the path in the afternoon, jann- who has beenchattering incessantly to you - warns you to stop. You are beingwatched. As you are now in a wood, you proceed cautiously. Sud-denly the bushes part and a figure steps forward* Dressed in black,this tall man bars your way. Will you prepare to do battle (turn tony)or try to talk with him (turn to 103)?;999
The little creature chatters loudly across the river to its friends* Theyare obviously not keen that you are refusing their welcome and youdecide you had better prepare yourself for defensive action. Turn to 203.;999
You wait with bated breath. But your prayers are answered as theboulder slows down. It squeals and screeches as invisible brakes takea hold and eventually stop the deadly ball. After a moment, it beginsto roll again - but in the opposite direction - and eventually it rolls outof view r back up the passage. You decide to return to the mainchamber, w'here you may take either the left-hand (turn to 16) or theright-hand passage (turn to 3). Remember you may not call uponLibra again during this adventure.;999
You follow the path for the rest of the afternoon until you stand on ahilltop. The path runs down the hill into a small village set on a riverand you follow it down. Turn to 176.;999
The noise outside eventually subsides as darkness spreads over thevillage. You have a good night's sleep. Add 3 stamina points andturn to 67.;999
You search through the pockets of the bandits but find nothing there.Setting off again along the path you continue for half an hour until theway ahead becomes an uphill incline. You reach a fork which offersyou two ways forward. Turn to 183.;999
Your brisk walk through the grass ends when your foot kicks a smallsack of some kind. Bending down to pick it up, you find it is a pouchcontaining 12 Gold Pieces! You put this in your backpack. But as youdo so, you find you have lost one item that you were carrying. Choosewhich item you have lost - it may only be gold or Provisions if you hadnothing else to lose - and cross it off your Adventure Sheet. As yousearch your pack for this missing object, you notice that the grass isbending towards you and trying to wrap itself round parts of yourequipment! You are standing in a meadow of PILFER GRASS and,unless you are careful, it will attempt to steal any items it may pickfrom your pack. Since you are now aware of this, you may guard yourbelongings and continue. Turn to 159.;999
You follow the path for half the morning and reach a fork where youmay either continue straight on (turn to 46) or turn westwards (turn toIQ).;999
The hunchback waves his hand in the air and you feel a sharp painsurge through your body. Lose 2 stamina points and 1 luck pointand return to the junction to take the other path. Turn to 38.;999
The jewel is large and looks very valuable it is set in a tarnishedmount. His price is 10 Gold Pieces. Buy the jewel if you wish. Turn to 280.;999
You knock at the door of one of the huts. There is no reply. You mayenter anyway (turn to 158) or try another hut (turn to 271).;999
You creep off to the edge of the village and settle down under a tree.You may eat Provisions if you wish which will add 2 stamina pointsif this is your first meal of the day or 1 stamina point if you haveeaten before. You try to sleep under the tree but you are wokencontinually by strange noises. Add 1 stamina point forgetting somerest and leave at daybreak. Turn to 45.;999
You walk down the passage for several minutes. You slip on the dirtand below your feet the ground gives way! You plunge into a hiddenpit and land on something soft. Your hand reaches out and touchessomething which slithers between your fingers, A snake pit! You aresitting on a mound of the deadly reptiles! Will you use your magic tohelp you:ZEN RIS POP LAW FIL366 4*7 303 433 344Or will you look for another means of escape (turn to 165)? If you havenot yet used your call to Libra, you had better do so now (turn to 273).;999
No one in the history of the Shamutanti Hills has found a way ofescaping the Demon's Deluge and you are not likely to be the first.You are still trying desperately to think of a way out as the air leavesthe cave and your lungs fill with water , . *;999
You continue along the path for several hours, taking you deeper intothe valley. Presently, the sun begins to set, the air becomes cooler,and you start to consider whether to find a suitable site to camp for thenight (turn to 76) or whether to continue onwards without sleep (turn to 224).;999
The door is locked (perhaps as some sort of sa fety device to seal off theupper parts of the mine from pit disasters - after all, the lives ofworker Goblins are expendable), and you will not break through thesolid rock. You may either try breaking the door down (turn to 228) orcasting a spell:HUF HOW GOP OOP DOM329 423 3 1 * 373 3 50;999
You rise early and leave soon after dawn with Jann still hoveringaround your head as you set off. Did you eat at all yesterday? If not,you must deduct 3 stamina points.There are two paths ahead: one uphill to the east (turn to 135), andone downhill to the west (turn to 51). Which will you choose?;999
You press on, climbing up the hillside for several hours until you arenot far from the top. Then you hear a faint sound of bustling activity.Tramping feet, grunting voices and the clanking of metal against rockmake you stop and listen. You decide to leave the path and continuecautiously through the woods. A short distance onwards you hidebehind a tree and survey a clearing ahead. A number of GOBLINSare in the clearing, in front of an open cave. It appears that they aremining the cave as they trudge in and out of the opening, carryinglarge bowls full of glistening rocks and dull metallic nuggets. Fromyour position you may easily slip into the cave to see whether you canfind anything of value (turn to 175), or you may ignore the mine andsiip around the side to a path leading onwards and down the far sideof the hill (turn to 13),;999
You creep by the sentry post unnoticed. Turn to 237,;999
Too late, you try to leap clear of the pitfall trap which has openedbeneath you. You drop some three metres into the pit and collapseunconscious in a heap. Turn to 139.;999
You are thrown into the hut and the door is locked. You are theirprisoner. You spend half an hour looking for a possible escape butthere does not appear to be one. if you wish you may sit down and eatProvisions (add 2 stamina points if this is your first meal today 1 if you have already eaten), then you may either settle down to sleep forthe rest of the night (turn to 109) or keep awake and on your guard incase anything should happen (turn to 140).;999
Examining the carvings on the axe, you can make out a messagewhich reads: This axe was crafted in the Year of the Ox for Glandra-gor the Protector. Its powers may be realized only by its owner. " 1 1 alsohas the number 233 carved on it If you keep it as a reserve weapon youmust subtract 1 point from your Attack Strength roll when using it.Turn to 126.;999
The smell gets sweeter as you pass on through the fields of BlackLotus flowers. You feel light-headed as you continue and you start toskip and jump with merriment. Jann, still on your shoulder, islikewise full of glee. Your head swims. Before you can stop yourself,you are feeling dizzy and falling to the ground. You fall into theflowers on to something hard. A surge of horror passes through youas you realize it is a skeleton! But the horror is short-lived as you loseconsciousness. The sweet aroma of the Black Lotus is a deadly poisonand you have breathed your last. You will rest for ever in the fields ofthe black death . . .;999
You approach the hut and call through the doorway. No Teply. Youpull back the drapes and step inside. The hut is obviously an abode ofsome kind, with pots, pans and clothes strewn about. In front of anopen fireplace is a skin rug on the ground and you have not noticedthat, as you look around, an eye opens on the skin's head.Your back is towards the rug and you cannot see it rising up andtaking on its natural shape - that of a WOLFHOUND - until it snarlsmenacingly and attacks. You will have to fight it:WOLFHOUND skill 7 stamina 6If you win, turn to 50. Or you may fight it with magic:kil yap gob zap bag315 4 425 335 440;999
You leave in search of the local inn. Turn to 134.;999
You find a suitable shelter in the rocks on the bank of the stream andbed down for the night. If you have not eaten since you left theOutpost Settlement, you may take some Provisions if you have anyand add 2 stamina points. If you have already eaten, you will gainonly 1 stamina point from the food.Eventually you drift off to sleep, soothed by the babbling of thestream. A short while later you are awakened by a splashing noise.Looking out from your shelter you see a strange sight. Three small,thin, man-iike creatures, glowing w r ith a dull red luminescence, arethrowing stones into the stream. Every so often they chirp with gleeas a good shot sends a fish flying into the air. As if pulled by a magicalforce, each fish floats across the w r ater and lands at their feet. Will yousit tight and hope they don't see you (turn to 281) or stand up and hailthem (turn to 12)?;999
She comes across the Spell Book page and drops your pack. 'Mybook!' she cries. The missing page! Why did you not tell me you hadmy missing spell?' She scurries off into the kitchen and returns with acup of liquid which she pours into your mouth. This antidote gradu-ally takes effect, unfreezing your body. She slaps you gently tobring you round. Turn to 114.;999
I can give you all sorts of aids for your journey/ she says. 'Are youaligned to the magical or physical arts?' Will you ask her for help withyour spells (turn to 17) or your abilities at swordplay (turn to 240)?;999
The man shuffles nervously over and shakes your hand. 'Are youmagical, stranger?' he asks. 'Are you not afraid of us? Or perhaps youare a healer who can cure us of this plague/ At his last word, youspring back, but it is too late. You have made contact with a plaguecarrier and from now onwards you will lose 3 stamina points eachday until you either die or you find someone who can cure you ofthe plague. Deduct your points first thing in the morning. You arehorrified at your discovery, back out of the hut and leave the villagequickly. Turn to 220.;999
You enter the village cautiously, creeping round the huts, but theplace appears to be deserted. A fire bums in the centre of the camp ina pit and a pile of logs stands near by. Will you look around the huts(turn to 1S9) or call out to see whether you can attract someone'sattention (turn to 42)?;999
You pass along the main path through the centre of the village. Thereis a small inn offering food for sale at which you may stop (turn to 257) or you may press on through the village (turn to 131).;257,131
You creep past the caves, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 250.If you are Unlucky, turn to 181.;999
Unfortunately for you, there is no other way of escape. As you try tothink of a plan the boulder is on you, flattening you on the floor. Yetagain a Svinn champion has failed to rescue the chief's daughter . . .;999
You must deduct 2 stamtna points for going without sleep. As youmake your way onwards, there is a chance that your noises will attractnight creatures. Turn to 123 to see whether you have any encounters,fight if necessary and then return to this reference. When you have donethis, continue by turning to 31.;999
You must take 3 st am ina points' worth of damage as you cover yourhead and make your way through this downpour of acorns. Turn to 7.;999
They stop and look at you. They invite you over but become agitatedat the sight of your weapon. You may leave your weapon and jointhem (turn to T85) or thank them for their offer of hospitality and presson (turn to 106).;999
In addition, she hands you a bag containing 7 Gold Pieces. Then she chuckles. You turn to leave the house quickly, but she stops you with a hand on your shoulder. 'But Alianna does not give up her prized possessions without a fight!' You turn round to see her casting a spell of some sort over a chair. The chair begins to crack and creak, moving violently in front of you. It forms itself into a WOOD GOLEM which now advances towards you! Will you fight the creature?\n\nWOOD GOLEM 		skill 8	 stamina 6\n\nIf you win, turn to 169. Or you may cast a spell:\nJIG	DOZ	HOT	KIN	MUG\n339	383	297	410	287;169;spells=JIG-339,DOZ-383,HOT-297,KIN-410,MUG-287;enemies=WOOD GOLEM-8-6
You stand at the door and call inside. There is no reply. You drawback the drapes and enter the small hut. Cushions ring the room and,as you enter, a strange music played on invisible pipes fills the room.The tune is pleasant and relaxing and you sit down on the cushions.Do you have a musical pipe with you? If so, you may take it out andplay along (turn to 11). Otherwise, turn to 179.;999
You leap ahead just in time as a pitfall caves in beneath you. You lookback to see a gaping pit which you would have fallen into. Turn to 170.;999
The lock breaks and she jumps from the cage. 'Stranger, I amindebted to you/ she says, 'Alianna will reward you/ Would you likeas your reward a magical item (turn to 248) or an aid in combat (turn to 122)?;999
You bid the merchant farewell and leave the hut. If you have boughtany artefacts from him, you are anxious to know what they are (turn to 126) but if you bought nothing from him, you may continue onyour way (turn to 163).;999
The inn is not cheap. A bed for the night Is 5 Cold Pieces and a meal is4 , If you eat, pay the price and add 2 stamina points (1 if you havealready eaten today). If you want to sleep here, turn to 55. If not, youhad better leave the village and find a place to bed down (turn to 21).;999
Roll two dice. If the number rolled is less than your skill score, yousucceed in breaking the door open. If not, then you may try again.Whether or not you succeed, you must deduct 1 stamina point ateach attempt. If you break the door open, turn to 39. If you decide togive up your attempts, you may return to the junction and leave thecave (turn to 144).;999
Surprisingly enough, although you can still feel the force on yourarm, it does not hamper your progress and you can make your wayonwards. In fact, the going seems to be easier, as if you are being ledby some invisible guide who is coaxing you along the best route.Eventually, the going gets easier as the dense undergrowth thins andyou are soon walking through a prairie with grass up to your waist.As you leave the heavy foliage, the grip on your arm is released. Add 1luck point. Still you cannot see who, or what, was responsible for theguidance. Turn to 105.;999
You press onwards, out through Cantopani along the path leading tothe Sh a mutanti Hills. However, you feel a little uneasy while passingthe huts on the fringes of the village. Hissings from within and slyfaces which disappear from the doorways as you pass make you feeldecidedly unwelcome and you are glad to be leaving. At the edge ofthe town you pass a large boulder and as you do so, two rough-cutvillagers spring out with swords drawn. BANDITS! They demandthat you hand over your backpack. If you do as they ask, turn to 261,but if you refuse, you will have to fight them - turn to 104.;999
You sit down and the young man turns towards you eagerly. Even-tually your presence is tolerated at the ale-house and the others getback to drinking and talking. You question the young man about thevillage. He becomes serious, looks at you grimly and says 'Snattacats!'You ask him what he means, but his reply is silence. Grimly he hangshis head. You try another line of conversation and suddenly he perksup and starts rambling on about his grandmother. The more you talkto him, the more you realize that you have chosen to sit next to thevillage idiot, hopelessly drunk. After an hour or so you leave theale-house. Will you look for the inn to spend the night (turn to 211) orleave the village and sleep rough (turn to 62)?;999
You may take these Provisions with you. Now turn to 75,;999
You emerge from the woods on to a river-bank. The path leads over arough wooden bridge and along the bank. Turn to 231.;999
As you pass by the sentry post, the Troll emerges from behind thehut armed with a halberd, and sees you. You will have to fight him:TROLL SKILL 8 STAMTNA Jif you win, turn to 177. If you wish to fight with magic, you maychoose:WOK SUN LAM KIL DUM386 363 432 414 317;999
You are lowered down through the blackness until eventually youreach the ground below. If you still have Jann, the Minimite, withyou, turn to 286, Otherwise turn to 197.;999
You try the key but it does not fit. Turn back to 4 and make anotherchoice.;999
You travel along a path leading upwards a little way until you reach alarge natural waterfall. The only path to it leads past a small hut wherea ruffian is collecting money. It seems that the price to pay for visitingthis waterfall is 3 Gold Pieces. It is a beautiful sight, with large crystalstalactites hanging from the rocks all the way down. Will you pay theprice and visit the waterfall (turn to 204) or return to the village andhead for the inn (turn to 92) or onwards out of town (turn to 21)?;999
The stranger ignores your words and grips a sharp scimitar. Turn to 117.;999
The bandits growl and advance. Yon may fight them in turn:First BANDIT skill 7 stamina 6Second BANDIT skill 7 stamina SIf you win , turn to 56.Alternatively, you may choose a spell:FOF jig bam law yaz288 308 327 348 371If you know none of these spells, draw your weapon and fight thebandits as above.;999
The going Is easy through the grass. You happen across a partingwhere it seems someone has been before, making a trail which isheading in the general direction you wish to continue. Will you followthis path (turn to 57) or do you mistrust it and wish to make your ownway through the grass (turn to 32)?;999
Further along the way you come across a couple of merchants' hutsand you browse through the items for sale. If you wish, and if you canafford it, you may buy any of the following items:A finely crafted sword 6 Gold Pieces Turn to 194A woven skullcap 4 Gold Pieces Turn to 247Provisions for three meals 6 Gold Pieces Turn to 97If you have no money, you may ask them whether they know of anywork that may be going (turn to 229), or if you don't wish to deal withthem at all, you may head for the inn for the night (turn to 134).;999
For this potion, he demands 4 Gold Pieces and the price is not negotiable. If you wish to buy, pay him the money and take the flask. Otherwise you may refuse his offer. Turn to 280,;280
You find a suitable spot in the woods to make your camp. If you havenot eaten yet today, you may do so if you have Provisions and youwill gain 2 stamina points. If you have already eaten today you willgain only 1 stamina point if you have a meal.You settle down and sleep, but there is a chance that you may bediscovered by night creatures who will disturb your rest. Rememberthis reference (you will have to return here afterwards) and turn to 123to see whether you encounter anything. You may add 2 points to thedie roll you will have to make as night creatures are less likely toapproach a camp.You may set off again the next morning. If you have had a peacefulnight's sleep, add 2 stamina points. If you encountered any nightcreatures, you may add only 1 stamina point. You follow a pathonwards which climbs steadily up a hill. Turn to 36.;999
You may add 2 stamina points for your rest, but if you did not eat atall yesterday you must deduct 3 stamina points. You wake early thenext morning. Turn to 222.;999
You pick yourself up off the floor and look around, A shaft of lightpenetrates the pit and you are relieved to see a passage leading to thedaylight outside. Your hand is resting on a furry object which at firstyou thought was some kind of creature, but now you are able to seethat it is a dusty boot. Not far from it is another, and you collect thepair and dust them clean. You now own a pair of fur- skinned boots,which you may take with you. The fur is Borrinskin, and you put theboots in your backpack. Following the passage, you emerge from themine into the woods by a pathway that runs downhill. Turn to 202.;999
There seems to be a good deal of merriment in the village. 'It is thefestival of the young/ whispers Jann. 'Once a year the children areallowed the freedom of the village. It is a time of great fun andpranks.' A number of children sit in the street ahead, drinking ale. Alittle too much, it seems, as they are laughing loudly. Ahead a youngboy holds an old woman over his knee and is spanking her, A groupof boys is fighting outside a hut with a sign which reads: 'GlandragorsTavern'. A group of girls is standing at a signpost pointing to the'Crystal Waterfall', tripping up their elders as they pass and giggling toeach other. Would you like to avoid this festival and make for the inn(turn to 92), visit the tavern (turn to 230), head for the CrystalWaterfall (turn to 102) or leave town straight away (turn to 21)?;999
The little men carry you off and you soon arrive at the Head Huntercamp. There is much commotion as you are led into the centre of thesettlement. Several natives rush off to fill a large pot with w r ater to beheated over a fire - the implications of which you do not relish!Meanwhile, you are put into a bamboo cage, guarded by a strongwarrior. Do you wish to pray to Libra for assistance? If so, turn 1025. Ifnot, turn to 242,;999
The creature jumps in the air as you greet him and cautiously comescloser. Seeing that you mean no harm, he invites you to join with hiscompanions. Will you join them (turn to 216) or say that you wouldrather stay where you are and rest (turn to 52)?;999
Tour days ago I was visited by a traveller such as yourself/ sheexplains. The rogue was leafing through my book when I caught himand as I challenged him he raced off, taking this page with him. Hemust have been a wizard of some power, considering the speed withwhich he vanished. 1 cast an Ageing Spell at him, but it seemed to dono good / She thanks you for bringing it back and offers to show youhow useful it is. She will rid you of the Minimite pest if you wish. Ifyou want to get rid of Jann and regain your ability to use spells, addtogether the page number you have with the number on what must bethe next page and turn to that reference number. If you have notrecorded the page number, or if you wish to keep Jann, she allowsyou to leave and set off again along the path (turn to 232)*;999
You pay the 3 Gold Pieces and settle down for the night. You may add2 stamina points for a refreshing night's sleep. Turn to 30.;999
The meal is warm and nourishing. Add 2 stamina points. Don'tforget to pay the price of the meal (1 Gold Piece) continue yourjourney, Turn 10131.;999
You prepare to fight the tall ASSASSIN:ASSASSIN skill 8 stamina 6Or you may cast a spell:MUG WOK ZAP KIL FIX368 452 305 393 34*If you fight and win, turn to 153. Alternatively you may elect to sparehis life when he is reduced to 3 st am in a points or less, so long as youare clearly winning (i.e. your own stamina is at least 6), by turning to 187.;999
You manage to creep around the creature and, although it snarlsmenacingly, it does not attack you. Turn to 193,;999
You open the door. The hut is neatly laid out inside obviously thetouch of a fastidious woman. Chairs are around a table. A mattresslies in one corner and a large kitchen area indicates that whoever liveshere is fond of cooking. You hear a cry from a corner hidden by a largecupboard, and as you move over to look you can see a large cage inw hich a young woman - and quite a pretty one ai that - is imprisoned ,'Good stranger/ she pleads, 'let me out of this cage! I have beenlocked in here for two days by those mischievous E Ivins. Can youplease help me?' Will you help her (turn to 4), ask what's in it for you( turn to 78) or look around the hut for goods to steal (turn to 213)?;999
You return to the junction and can continue either by taking the otherpassage (turn to 149) or by returning to the cave entrance (turn to 144),;999
Seeing the death of their comrade, the other two Elvirts chatter to eachother, then rise into the air and nip off. Soon they have disappearedcompletely. After half an hour they have still not returned, so yougather your possessions together and decide to continue your jour-ney, Turn to 224,;999
She hands you Ragnar's Armband of Swordmastery. While wearingthis Item you may add 2 points to your dice roll for Attack Strength ifyou are using a sword as a weapon. Your powers will be normal if youare using any other weapon. Now l urn to 87.;999
Roll one die to see whether you encounter any night creatures Roll Creature:1 Giant Bat 5 52 Giant Bat 5 53 Wolfhound 7 64 Werewolf 8 95+ No encounterYou must fight any creatures you encounter. The following spellsmay be used:ran gum law wik big396 421 448 437 453After checking your encounter, return to the previous reference.;999
'You cannot escape the Spirit of Mananka!' cries the face. 'And yourmission is cursed!' You watch as the smoke contracts and disappearsback inside the box. You wonder at the Spirit's curse, but there is littleyou can do. Until you find some way of ridding yourself of this curse,your stamina has been weakened. Each time you lose staminapoints for any reason except casting spells , you must lose 1 extrastamina point. You may search for some means of ridding yourselfof the Spirit's curse for, until you do, you are more vulnerable todangers. You may now leave the hut and continue your journeyonwards. Turn to 196.;999
You leave Kristatanti along a path which snakes out into the hills. Allmorning you follow it as it twists through the woods of gnarled treesuntil eventually you reach a clearing where another path joins fromthe east. A signpost at the junction indicates straight on to Dhumpusand westwards to Alianna. Will you continue onwards (turn to 54) orwestwards (turn to 154)?;999
You may investigate your purchases by turning to the appropriatereferences as indicated: the potion (274)  the broadsword (43)  thepipe (249)  the axe (72)  the bag of teeth (190)  and the jewel (152).You will return here after investigating all your new acquisitions. Tocontinue onwards, turn to 95.;999
You follow a meandering path around the side of a hill for most of themorning. You may stop and eat Provisions along the way if you wishand you will gain 2 stamina points if you do. As noon approachesyou can see the path offering you two ways onwards. One pathfollows the hill downwards into a shallow valley and then climbs thenext hill. Your other choice is a path which leads to a rope-and-woodbridge which spans the hills. Will you cross this bridge (turn to 27) orfollow a course down the hillside (turn to 38)?;999
You dash on ahead but suddenly realize you are running into anunknown mine with perhaps your only exit sealed off behind you! Ifyou wish to continue down wards, turn to 24. Otherwise you mayturn round and head back for the door {turn to 66).;999
The driver is a cheerful fellow and prefers company to travellingalone. You may add 1 i.uck point for getting this lift. You travel formost of the morning at a pace not much faster than you could walkuntil he finally reaches a field where he is collecting vegetables. Youmay offer to help him for an hour or so in return for the lift (turn to173) or you may leave him and continue your journey (turn to 46).;999
The door opens slowly until, at one point, a catch dicks and someominous rumblings start. Behind you, a wall is rising through thefloor to seal off your escape, A great splashing makes you whirl roundand you gasp as you see hundreds of gallons of water come gushingaround you from within the room! You are swept off the ground asthe room and corridor fill. If you do not react quickly you will bedrowned as the water fills all the available space. Will you casta spell:SUS HUF DIP FQF SUD39O 324 416 365 445Or do you have another plan (turn to 64)? If you have not yet called onhelp from your goddess, you may do so now (turn to 260).;999
You continue along the path, leaving the village behind. About half and hour later, you reach the start of the climb into the hills and continue upwards. Five minutes later, you reach a fork offering you two ways onwards. Turn to 183.;183
They release your hands, allowing you to choose a spell to impressthem with:KID JAP DVD GOB SIX353 376 292 4oi 316If you know none of these, turn to 218.;999
You continue along the trail and the undergrowth around you getsthicker. Suddenly there is a cracking beneath your feet and somethinggives way underfoot. You may Test your Luck* If you are Unlucky, turnto 70. If you are Lucky, turn to 89. If you would prefer not to Test yourLuck, turn to 70.;999
The inn charges 3 Gold Pieces for a hearty meal and 3 Gold Pieces for abed. If you can afford it, you may eat. The meal (Hillfox broth and rice)will restore 3 stamina points if you have not yet eaten today or 2stamin a points if this is not your first meal. If you wish to stay at theinn for the night, turn to 115. If you cannot afford it or will not pay,you may leave the village in search of a suitable place to camp for thenight (turn to 14).;999
You travel along the path for some time. Passing out of a shrubbywoodland a pleasant smell hits your nostrils. Off to the right is a fieldof beautiful black flowers. The path through the field leads on overthe brow of the hill into a valley below. Jann believes this is thequickest path toTorrepani, the next village on your route. If you don'ttrust his judgement you may use a spell:sun huf mag sus435 34 1 4*9 321 394Or you may continue onwards (turn to 73). Alternatively, you mayretrace your steps and take the other route downhill from Birritanti(turn to 51),T36-140;999
If this is your first meal today, add 2 stamina points. If you havealready eaten, add only 1 stamina point. You rest for half an hour orso and then continue your journey. Turn to 65.;999
You continue through the bush until you reach a point where theundergrowth thins and becomes a waist-high grassland. Turn to 105. ;999
The passage continues until you reach a large stone-cut door blockingyour progress. Will you try the door handle (turn to 255) or return tothe junction and take the other passage (turn to 149)?;999
When you regain consciousness, you are bound hand and foot. Theexcited jabberings of a small group of black -skinned HEAD HUNT-ERS around you make you fear for your life. You may try to cast aspell:RIS DUD HOT KID WIK357 406 333 45 379Or you may w ait to see w hat they intend to do w ith you (turn to 112).;999
You remain diligently awake, watching the door, but no one comesduring the night. Lose 2 stamina points for not sleeping and afurther 3 stamina points if you did not eat yesterday. Turn to 222.;999
The strange carvings are in a familiar language, but the quality of theshaft and head indicate that the axe is well used and may not lastmany more battles. The merchant wants 7 Gold Pieces for theweapon. You may pay his price and take the axe, or you may bargain.If you wish to bargain, roll two dice. A roll lower than 7 indicates youare a hard bargainer and he will accept this roll, in Gold Pieces, as hisprice. If you roll over 7, your bartering angers him and he insists onraising the price to this level. Buy if you will, then turn to 280.;999
You draw your weapon and try to smash the lock. Roll two dice andcompare the total with your skill score. If the roll is lower than yourskill, you succeed in breaking the lock and releasing the woman(turn to 90), If the roll equals or exceeds your skill, the lock remainsintact. Each time you try, the blow blunts your weapon and you mustdeduct 1 point from your skill when you use this weapon. If youhave two weapons, you may use the less favoured one so as to sufferno penalty when using your normal weapon. You must try at leastonce but, after this, you may stop at any time, give up and leave thehouse (turn to 278).;999
The hunchback smiles.'Your answer is correct and true.Now you must answer question two:Through villages three you now have passedWhat was the first, second and last VHow will you answer him?Cantopani, Kristatanti and Dhumpus Turn to 262Kristatanti, Birritanti and Dhumpus Turn to 253Cantopani, Gorretanti and Dhumpus Turn to 59;999
You emerge carefully from the cave, trying not to be spotted bywandering Goblins. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 259. Ifyou are Unlucky, turn to 217.;999
Both boxes look like fairly uninteresting wooden cases, each fastenedwith a catch. Will you try opening the one on the left (turn to 251) orthe right (turn to 258)?;999
The tea is refreshing and you may add 1 stamina point. Also add 1luck point for making the right choice. You notice that the woman iscursing and her actions are becoming slower. She creeps slowly offinto the kitchen and you see her gulping down another drink. Thenshe comes back and questions you about your journey. She is particu-larly interested in knowing whether you came across an old man. Ifyou have with you a page from a Spell Book, turn to 184, If not, turn to 219,;999
The gentle upward slope becomes a steep climb and you must restseveral times during the morning. Finally you reach the top and canlook over the hill to see that the path leads into a small settlement ofcrudely made huts. You follow the path down and into the village. Asyou arrive, the villagers notice you and make for their huts, almost asif in fear. They are a sorry -1 coking bunch, short and squat with tough,leathery skin. Several of them are missing limbs and some are onlyable to drag themselves along with their hands. Will you try to talkwith the villagers (turn to 61) or continue onwards through the village (turn to 220)?;999
Have you eaten since leaving the Outpost Settlement yesterday? Ifnot, you are extremely hungry and must deduct 3 stamina pointsfor going without food for the day.You continue on your way and approach a rope bridge strungprecariously between two boulders. You may either continue alongthe path on your side of the water (turn to 209) or you may cross theriver on the bridge and follow a path running over a small hill (turn to 19);999
The passage twists round to the right until it finally ends at adoorway. Will you try the door (turn to 268) or leave the cave entirely (turn to 144)?;999
You press on through the wood and soon come across anotherpath which crosses it. You follow this path northwards until youcome to a junction. A signpost at the junction points westwards toAlianna and straight on toDhumpus. Wilt you head for Alianna (turnto 154) or Dhumpus (turn to 54)?;999
Some way down the corridor you hear whimpering and your torchlights up a frail shape. Hiding in the shadows is the young Svinn girl!You take her up and comfort her, and she clings to you for safety.Now all you have to do is escape! Turn to 195,;999
The glittering jewel in its mount is cold to the touch but has anunusual sparkle. You put it in your pack. However, it is in fact an IceJewel and sometime later will melt away to worthless liquid. You havewasted your money. Turn to 126.;999
Looking through his pockets you find 3 Gold Pieces. You mav now setoff ahead, continuing along the path. Turn to 212,;999
Some way down the path you come across a hut in a rather pictur-esque setting, among trees with leaves of contrasting shades of green.Flowers decorate the walls of the hut and the door is painted in ornatedesigns. You approach the door and knock but there is no reply. Willyou enter the house (turn to 119) or leave well alone (turn to 278)?;999
Searching the bodies, you find a miserable 2 Gold Pieces in theirpockets. You may also take 8 teeth, which lie on the ground next tothe first Goblin, Turn to 202.;999
You climb into the undergrowth from the path and plan a wide sweeparound the village. The going is heavy as you climb through thevegetation* Bushes and tall grasses are constant obstacles which catchand scratch you. Suddenly you feel a strong hand on your arm whichmakes you whirl round - but you can see nothing gripping you! Willyou try to continue (turn to 94) or prepare to defend yourself (turn to 241)?;999
The path winds upwards into the hills and you enter a wood. The afternoon sun glints through the trees, playing tricks on your eyes.Every so often you catch a glimpse of some strange-shaped animal orother watching you, only to find that it is the silhouetted branchesand leaves caught at an odd angle. You reach a position where you may rest and eat Provisions if you wish (turn to 18) , If you wish tocontinue, turn to 210.;18,210
Inside, the hut has no furniture. A small fire burns in the middle of thefloor and against the far wall stands a family of three, cowering awayfrom you. Will you hold out your hand in friendship (turn to 79) orcast a spell:gak fof ran fam doc385 43* 337 4 i 3 2 99Alternatively you may leave the village (turn to 220);999
Further along the path, you come across another object, this time alocket containing a small portrait of a woman, obviously pilfered froma previous traveller unaware of the grasses habits. You may take thiswith you. Eventually you reach the river-bank again, well past thevillage. Turn to 231.;999
You pray to your goddess and, amidst the crashing of rubble, you canhear a great creaking as the door slowly opens. When it has openedwide enough, you nip through it into the room, just in time, as youhear a great crashing from the tunnel. Return to the junction  turn to 120.You have now called on Libra for help, your one and only limeallowable in the Shamutanti Hills. Should you attempt to seek herassistance again between here and Khare, she will ignore you (i.e.you may not choose this option if it is given in the text). You are onyour own!;999
The meal is just being served. If you wish to sit down to eat, pay the 2Gold Pieces and have your bowl of Skunkbear stew. You may add 3stamina points if you eat. You will not be able to eat your ownProvisions at the inn. If you wish to rest for the night, pay the 3 GoldPieces. The bed you are given is not particularly clean, but is comfort-able and you may add 5 stamina points for a good night's rest.If you wished to eat, but not rest, turn to 62, If you have stayed thenight, turn now to 43.;999
You must fight the Giant:HILL GIANT skill 9 stamina 11If you win, turn to 265, Alternatively you may cast a spell:yob kil dum btg vaz361 430 338 4 11 3 8 4;999
The villagers are becoming curious about you and you decide to makeyour way onwards. Following the path out of Cantopani youapproach the Shamutanti Hills themselves. After half an hour or so, afork in the path gives you a choice of two ways. Turn to 183.;999
The path winds alongside a bubbling stream and you follow it on-wards along the west bank. J he valley you are in becomes narrower,but you soon come across a flat, grassy bank where you may stop andeat Provisions (turn to 136). If you would prefer to continue, turn 1065.;999
You may try to kill all the snakes in the pit with your weapon. Test yourLuck. If you are Lucky, Test your Luck again. You must keep tryinguntil you are Lucky three times in succession. Each time you areUnlucky you are bitten by a snake for 3 sta m i n a points of damage. Ifyou are Lucky three times in succession, you manage to kill all thesnakes and may turn to 206.;999
Which spell will you choose?NAP SIX BAG LAW KIL332 295 313 380 427If you do not know these spells, or prefer not to use one, you will haveto use your weapon. Turn to 20.;999
Turn to 245.;999
You turn to your pack and pick it up. But you drop it again in fear as it moves in your hands' Something is inside ill Cautiously, you openthe top and, as you do so, a green squirrel-like creature with a hugebelly leaps out and into the woods* You curse and examine thecontents, but it is too late: the little creature has eaten all your Provisions. You are angry at your own carelessness and set oft briskly along the trail again. Turn to 210.;210
Hurriedly, you leave the house and follow the path back to thejunction where you may head north towards Dhumpus. Turn to 54.;999
Your relief is somewhat premature, however, as you discover whenyou take your next step forward. Your foot triggers a release mechan-ism and three saplings snap up In front of you. Each is fitted withsharpened stakes which whip towards you at heart level. You areimpaled on this fiendish device and your journey has ended here.Your head will soon join the others on the posts you have justpassed . . .;999
The creature is a MINIMITE and calls itself Jann. It is very friendlyand tells you you are looking down on Birritanti, the largest villagein the Shamutanti Hills. Birritanti is a friendly village, where alltravellers spend at least one night. Consequently, prices are a little onthe high side. The Minimite would like to come with you. Will youallow it to stay on your shoulder and follow the path down intoBirritanti (turn to 111) or will you tell it you would rather travel alone (turn to 37)?;999
You call into the hut hut there is no reply. Parting the drapes, you lookin. A low table and three stools are in the middle of the floor and twoboxes stand on the table. Will you enter and investigate the boxes(turn to 145) or try one of the other two huts, the green one (turn to 88)or the brown (turn to 74)?;999
He is grateful for the help and offers you vegetables to take with youon your journey - enough for one meal - as payment. Then you leavehim and set off along the path. Turn to 46.;999
Further along the corridor you come to a door. Will you try the door(turn to 130) or return to the junction and take the other passage (turnto 151)?;999
You creep closer, round the side of the hilt, to the entrance of the cave.You seize your chance when all is quiet to nip inside and hide in theshadows. Following the passage cautiously, you come to a junctionwhere you may fork to the left (turn to 138) or the right (turn to 149).Which will you choose?;999
As you follow the path downwards you pass a sign. You are enteringthe village of Dhumpus. Will you find an inn to rest for the night (turnto 134) or try to make contact with the villagers (turn to 34)?;999
You search the Troll's body and hul. Inside the hut you find a pouchcontaining 3 Cold Pieces, Around the Troll's neck is a small amuletmade of twisted metal. This is a Lucky Charm - although it broughtlittle luck to the Troll. While wearing this charm, you may subtractone point from your dice roll each time you Test your Luck , Turn to 237.;999
The path winds through fields of wild scrubland. The countryside is deserted and an eerie silence is broken only by the cawing of an occasional crow. The birds appear to pause in the air to examine you as they pass and you feel uneasy in their presence. You pass over a small hillock, from the top of which you can see the path continuing downwards into a small settlement of huts at the base of the Shamu-tanti Hills. You follow the path and, as you approach the village, noises and movements indicate that it is populated. As the path runs straight through the village, you have little choice but to follow it.The round huts are made of a hard-baked, bright clay with that chedroofs. As you pass, eyes appear at dark doorways watching yourmovements. Suddenly a villager appears from one of the dwelling sand stands before you. He is five feet tall with thick-set arms and thighs half clothed in tattered breeches. His eyes are wild and his longred hair and beard stand out on his face in a wiry tangle. 'Halt, stranger!' he commands. 'What business have you in Cantopani? 'What is your response? Tell him you are a trader Turn to 264 Ask for directions onwards Turn to 33 Tell him you are hungry and need Provisions Turn to 198;264,33,198
You realize that a few more minutes of this music and you will bedropping off to sleep. But the effect is so relaxing that you cannot helpyourself. Slowly you drift away. Turn to 279.;999
You pick a clearing where you may open your backpack and get outyour Provisions. Your ears are peeled to the sounds around you andyou arc startled when a flock of Woodgulls fly up into the air near by.You may, if you wish, pack up your bags and continue your trek (turnto 133) or stay to finish your meal (turn to 272).;999
You step on a twig which snaps loudly. A stirring comes from withinone of the caves and a noise indicates something is approaching. Alarge figure emerges in ragged clothes and you now face a GIANT,armed with a heavy club. Will you prepare to attack the creature (turnto 162) or attempt to talk with it (turn to 256)?;999
What will you give the man? If you have an axe, turn to the numbercarved on the axe. If you do not have an axe, you will now have to givehim something else (turn to 29).;999
You ponder the two trails. As you consider the paths onwards, you hear weak cries from a large tree ahead of you. Cautiously, you step up to see an old man sitting on the lowest branch, apparently afraid to jump down to the ground, which considering his age is not surprising. He pleads with you to assist and you help him down. It transpires that he has been travelling from Dhumpus and is headed towards the Outpost Settlement in Analand, His journey had been safe enough until he was wa ylaid by Elvins, robbed, and left in the tree. In return for your kindness, he relates a rhyme which he feels may help you\n'See him though he sees you not The black-eyed creature creeps. A guardian once , but now his lot: The key to freedom keeps.\nHe is not sure exactly what the rhyme signifies, but he knows that the Elvins are particularly keen on finding the key in question. He also presses on you his only possession: a page from a Spell Book (pagenumber 102). The spell described is incomplete  you have only part ofit. Looking at it, it appears to be some sort of pest- repelling spell. Hethen bids you farewell and heads off towards Cantopani.You may now choose your way onwards. Will you take the high way up into the hills (turn to 157) or the low way along the valley (turn to 164)? Alternatively you may investigate a buzzing coming from around the tree (turn to 200).;157,164,200
You describe the old man you encountered and her eyes light up. Sheasks whether you stole from him a page from a Spell Book and is over joyed as you pull the page from your pack. Giggling with glee,she snatches it from you. Turn to 114.;114
You sit and talk with them. They seem to be amongst the seniormembers of the village society and this has been a lucky encounter(add 2 luck points). They offer you food, which you may eat for again of 1 stamina point. As the conversation becomes lighter, youjokingly refer to the 'buffoons at Krista tan tih a comment which doesnot go down well with one of your hosts who happens to be from thatvillage. In anger, he rises and challenges you. As you are on his ownterritory this would not be a wise challenge to accept, so you back off.He chases you angrily through Dhumpus and you flee before him . Onthe edge of the village he gives up the chase and you may headonwards  but you realize with dismay that you have left yourweapon behind! You must now continue weaponless and, unless youhave a reserve In your pack, you must deduct 4 skill points until youfind another weapon. Turn 1014.;999
There is little in the room of value, but the dead Goblin wears a silverkey around its neck with the number 111 on it. You may take this keywith you and continue either onwards through the door ahead (turnto 239) or back the way you came (turn to 120).;999
He begs for mercy and, when you step back from the battle, he isoverwhelmingly grateful. Picking himself up and nursing his woundshe tells you he is Flanker, an assassin and thief. He always picks onwayfarers for combat practice and thought you would be no match.He too is headed for Khare and, in return for your mercy, he promiseshe will remain your friend , This will be a valuable asset in the city port.When you reach Khare you will meet Flanker again and he promiseshe will aid you. Turn to reference 79 in the second Sorcery ! adventureto find out how he will help. He will not accompany you to Khareand instead disappears into the woods. You have made a valuable con-tact here. Add 2 luck points and continue by turning to 212,;999
Soon it becomes dark and you must decide whether to set up camp forthe night (turn to 108) or to continue without rest (turn to 49).;999
All the huts have brightly coloured drapes hanging in their doorways,and each is a different colour. You may investigate one with a reddoorway (turn to 172), a green doorway (turn to 88) or a browndoorway (turn to 74).;999
The teeth in the bag are indeed from various creatures: several fromDeath-hounds, three from an Ape, four from a Goblin, two from aSnattacat and a large molar from a Giant. You may take any or all ofthese, then turn to 126,;999
You chat for some time. When you tell him you are heading for Kharehe tells you that you will have to pass through Tor repani and that youwill find it a different place as the Svinns that live there seem to be in apermanent state of depression these days. Through Torrepani youhave a day's travel to Khare and the going is easy down the hills. Youcan add 2 stamina points for the ale and 1 luck point for theinformation, jann, the Minimite, has been sipping at your ale and isnow quite drunk. You try to creep off either to the inn (turn to 92) orout of the village (turn to 21) but you cannot lose the little creature.;999
You sit down and mutter some comment about the mud on the trailsat this time of year. The old man grunts in agreement. Eventually thesilence gives way to noisy chatter once more and you talk to the oldman. He is a hill farmer on the outskirts of the village and sees muchof what comes and goes in Krista tanti. He has heard of the capture ofthe Crown of Kings but has little interest in world affairs. You tell hima little of yourself and soon you are both laughing heartily as youexchange Goblin jokes. Eventually, he stands to leave. There arc twoways onwards from Krista tanti, stranger/ he says. 'One will take youpast Alianna's home - and you will need your wits about you if she isthere. The other leads up into the hills to the Lea-Ki, domain of thegreat ones. I wish you the luck of Sindla on your journey. Perhaps thiswill help you on your way / He hands you an apple-like fruit which hehas grown on his farm. It is a nourishing Bomba and, if you eat thisalong with a normal meal, it will double your gain in stamina. Youthank him and wish him a good night.You may add 2 luck points for your encounter. Then you mustdecide whether to spend the night in the inn (turn to 211) or wanderoff into the woods outside the village to sleep rough (turn to 62).;999
You continue onwards, up the path for a couple of hours, downanother valley and back up another hill. It is now late afternoon andyou begin to think about where you will stay for the night. Ahead ofyou, however, is a small village set into the hill. Turn to 28,;999
The sword has a specially sharpened blade and will inflict 3 sta m i n apoints' worth of damage instead of the normal 2. However, you willnot be able to take this sword if you already have a sword unless youleave your old one behind. If you don't consider this new sword is asgood as your old one, you may ask the merchant for your money back(Test your Luck - if you are Lucky he will give you a refund). Then turn to 75.;999
Behind you a roaring puts you on your guard. The walls of thecorridor begin to shake and crumble and you are forced to venturefurther to avoid the collapse which is sealing off your exit. Ahead ofyou now, a narrow' shaft of light gives you cause for hope. Perhapsthis is another exit? The roaring sound gets louder as you step fromthe corridor into a large cavern. Suddenly you gasp as you backagainst the wall, shielding the child from the sight you have seen.Standing before you on four legs is a huge MANTICORE-a hybridcreature with a lion's body and a scorpion's tail. Its face is that of anold man and as it sees you it rears back, flapping two great wings. Willyou fight the creature (turn to 227) or cast a spell?PEP BAG HOP FOF DOZ302 389 345 415 3*5;999
Cautiously, you leave the village and follow the river upstream for anhour. Turn to 231.;999
You peer around in the blackness. The Svinns throw you down atorch and linderbox to light your way. Lighting up the torch you cansee you are in a large cavern. Two passageways lead onwards. Willyou take the one on the right (turn to 3) or the left (turn to 16)?;999
He motions on ahead, telling you that you will find the village innshortly on the right.By choosing this option, you will now discover one of the rules of thegame which you will otherwise only discover by trial and error. Theadventure is divided into days and each day you will need to eat onemeal, otherwise you will lose stamina points due to undernourish-ment. Options will be given either to eat Provisions from your pack orto buy food at local inns during the day. If you go for a day withoutfood, you will suffer. When night comes, you will be given the optionto sleep or continue through the night. Likewise, if you miss a night'ssleep you will also lose stamina points as you will be tired the nextday, although taking a night's rest will usually replenish yourstamina. But you will have to choose your times to eat and sleepcarefully as sometimes a seemingly 'safe' place to rest and eat mayhold hidden dangers!You walk on ahead as the villager indicated. Turn to 257,;999
The key is old and rusty and a number is stamped into it. You can justmake out the figure on the key: 54. You may put this in your backpackand then either leave the village quickly (turn to 196) or try the otherbox on the table (turn to 251).;999
As you look up, you can see a beehive around which a small swarm ofbees are buzzing. You may climb up the tree to investigate (turn to 270)or ignore it and continue onwards (turn to 9).;999
The job is indeed unpleasant. The villager feeds you (add 2 staminapoints) but you lose 3 stamina points for missing a night's sleep.You may, if you wish, use your magic to help you with the job:BIG DIP FEP FIL ZAP298 444 362 412 318Otherwise turn to 263.;999
You leave the mine along the path downwards through the woods.Continuing for a couple of hours it is now late afternoon - you arerelieved to see a small village ahead of you, set into the hillside. Turn to 28.;999
Sensing your attitude, the creature pulls a short sword from its belt. Itdrops sharply out of the air and nips in at you, slashing at your armwith its weapon, its speed astounds you and before you realize whathas happened, the sharp sword has grazed your arm, inflicting 1stamina point's worth of damage. You may fight this little ELVIN,but during the fight its speed adds two points to its dice roll whencalculating Attack Strength:ELVIN SKILL 6 STAMINA 4If you win, turn to 121. Alternatively you may cast a spell:HOT ZEL WOK BIG YAZ405 294 441 356 378;999
The ruffian takes your 3 Gold Pieces and hands you a piece of cloth touse as a towel. Along with two other villagers - and of course Jann theMinimite - you take off your clothes and bathe in the waterfall. Youbegin to glow and the cool water is not only refreshing but alsoinvigorating. You are bathing in a waterfall with magical healingproperties. You may restore your skill, stamina and luck scores totheir Initial values for washing away your wounds. The waterfall willalso cure you of any diseases you may have picked up (but notcurses). Then you must return to the village where you pass the inn.Turn to 92,;999
Squealing loudly, the Mmirnite disappears from your shoulder. Youare relieved to find that you will be able to make use of your magiconce more. The old woman allows you to leave and you continuealong the path. Turn to 232.;999
You are surrounded by dead snakes. Your luck held out, but yoursuccess will not. You have no means of climbing back up to thepassage! The rest of your life will now be spent starving to deathalthough if you can stomach raw snake you will live a little longer . . .Your only remaining chance is if you have not yet called upon Libra(turn to 273);999
You enter the cave and can hear a faint whistling which gets louderthe deeper you go. A little deeper still into the cave you stumble andfall, and as you do so, the whistling stops. To your horror you realizeyou have tripped over an enormous foot and, in front of you, aGIANT is rubbing its eyes and looking towards you! ft grabs a cluband picks itself slowly up. You will have to fight it, either with aweapon:HILL GIANT skill 9 stamina 11(if you win, turn to 265), or with a spell KIL BIG YAZ YOB DUM430 4 1 * 384 361 338;999
You may leave the village along one of two paths. One winds up intothe hills - turn to 147 if you wish to take this one. The olher takes adownhill route into a wood - turn to 127 to follow this one.;999
You continue along a riverside path for several hours until you reach awide bend. In the elbow of the bend ahead you can see a cluster ofhuts made out of thatched branches and twigs. A fire in the centre ofthe huts wafts smoke into the air, but not a sound comes from thevillage. Will you continue ahead into the village (turn to 80) or leavethe path and go up into the hills to try to avoid it (turn to 156)?;999
The climb continues for two or three hours as the path twists this wayand that up the hillside. Soon the air gets cold and the sun sets, making it difficult for you to see. However, the moon is full and willbe able to light the way as it gets darker. Would you like to continuefurther, marching through the night (turn to 84) or will you stop and make camp to get some sleep (turn to 283)?;84,283
The village inn will charge you 3 Gold Pieces for a night's rest and 2Gold Pieces for nourishing food. If you wish to buy either of these,turn to 161. If the price is too high for you, turn to 62.;999
Continuing along the path and round the side of a hill, you are nowbecoming increasingly irritated by the Minimite's chattering. Youcome across a small wooden hut where an old woman sits on the frontstep. As you pass she calls out to you, inviting you over. Will you seewhat she wants (turn to 243) or ignore her and continue (turn to 235)?;999
She curses as you search the hut. This curse, however, is no idlethreat. The Curse of Alianna reduces your skill score by 2 pointsfrom now until such time as the curse is removed. Quickly you lookthrough drawers and cupboards but succeed only in finding a pouchcontaining soft brown sand, and 2 Gold Pieces. You may take thesewith you, leave the house and set off again. Turn to 278.;999
The sword has a fine cutting edge and has been honed by a mastercraftsman. Roll two dice. This is the price in Gold Pieces that themerchant requires for the sword. If you are prepared to pay this priceyou may purchase it. Whether or not you do, turn next to 280.;999
Three Svinns chase you as you run down the hilL They tackle andgrapple with you, finally pinning you down. Lose 2 stamina pointsfor the struggle. They tie you into the rope basket and lower youdown the pit. Turn to 100.;999
The creatures are EL VINS, mischievous little half-humans. 1 hey livein a village not far up the river and they are fond of impish pranks.Every so often they will disappear and, as you search round nervous-ly, reappear suddenly in front of you just to make you jump. They areable to turn their glow on and off at will, and another favourite trick isto extinguish their glow and drop down in front of you. More oftenthan not, this means you trip over them, causing considerable merri-ment to all but you. Nevertheless, you keep your temper. You doappear to be hindering their progress and after an hour or so they tireof you and vanish into the woods along the riverside. You wait in vainfor them to reappear and eventually decide to find another suitableshelter for the night to get some sleep. You awake again at sunrise andcontinue along the path. Turn to 148,;999
You have been unlucky and are noticed by a small group of 3 Goblinswho come at you armed with picks FIRST GOBLIN skill 5 stamina 4SECOND GOBLIN skill 6 stamina 4THIRD GOBLIN skill 5 stamina 5Attack each in turn and, if you win, turn to 155. Or you may cast aspell:HOP ZAP RAP RAW RAZ428 407 358 381 442;999
They have taken your backpack and are sorting through it, taking anyitems they wish* Having done this, and regarding you as fairlyharmless, they let you go.To decide which items they want, go through all the items youpossess one by one and Test your Luck on each. Each time that you areLucky, the item in question is no use to them and you may keep it.Each lime you are Unlucky they will steal this item from you and youmust cross it off your Equipment List. Include your Gold - and yourProvisions - as single items. You do not have to deduct luck pointseach time you Test your Luck here.When they have ransacked your possessions, they let you go and youmay leave the village. Turn to 196.;999
She asks you whether you have any items 'of a magical nature". Youare naturally a little suspicious and avoid the issue. Eventually sheallows you to leave and continue your journey. Turn to 232,;999
Some way down the hill you stop for a rest. You sit on a boulder tosurvey what lies ahead. The path leads downwards into a vale.Cradled betw een three hills is a village - and quite a large one at that.The sun is falling rapidly and you decide to head downwards towardsthis settlement. An overhanging branch touches your face and youhear a lively chirping. Hovering by your shoulder is a small creaturethe size of your thumb. It is child-like but very thin, with green skin,and it flits around you on transparent wings. It seems to be quitefriendly and alights on your shoulder. You may talk to it (turn to 171)or try to get rid of it with a spell:SIX WIK HOP GAK WAL387 336 45 1 3oo 306;999
The cave is not deep and appears to be empty. Rubble, mostly smallpebbles, on the floor includes some large items such as a huge brokenstool, a net with a very wide mesh and a large skull, human-shapedbut well over normal size. All of this leads you to one conclusion these caves are inhabited by Giants! You may take anything - or anypart of anything - on the floor that you wish with you, but if you takethe stool, you will not be able to carry anything else so you will have toleave all your other possessions except your weapon. Then you mayleave and go either into the other cave (turn to 207) or leave the cavesand continue onwards (turn to 250).;999
An hour after daybreak you hear noises outside. The door opens andfive Svinns come in followed by an old man with grey hair andcolourful robes. He announces himself as Proseus, the Svinn chief,and apologizes for having captured you. He nods to a menial whobrings in bread and milk. You may eat this meal and add 2 staminapoints.The chief explains that you have a mission of the utmost importanceahead of you. His young daughter, his only heir, has been capturedby marauders and is being offered as a sacrifice to a powerful cavedemon. Several of his own men have tried to rescue the girl but so farwith no success. 'We are a desperate people/ explains the chief. 'Youmust be our champion and rescue our heir. If you succeed you maychoose your own reward.'It is dear that, in spite of the chiefs apparent good nature, you havelittle choice in this matter. You are taken out of the village and along ameandering path up another hill. On the top of the hill is a hole in theground and the Svinns prepare a basket to lower you down into whatmust be a secret entrance to the demon's cave. Will you try a lastattempt at escaping (turn to 215) or are you thinking only of the richtreasures you may win (turn to 100)?;999
As you move, the creature steps towards you, showing its sharpteeth. Realizing you cannot avoid it without a fight, you step forward.Turn to 252,;999
You must lose 2 stamina points for continuing through the nightwithout rest. Just before sunrise you pause briefly to take yourbearings in the morning light. Turn to T48.;999
He places the coins in a pouch around his waist. 'The low road leads through the Vale of the Elvin' he tells you, 'and unless you are prepared for Elvin ways - for they are mischievous and magical - you had better avoid this path. The high way takes you up into the hills past the Schanker Mines,' He laughs, and adds: 'But you must keep your head if you take this path! Head onwards for Kristatanti, which you will reach in a day or two, for few villages in the Sha mutant Hills welcome strangers, and at Kristatanti you will at least find food and shelter. And beware the Black Lotus on your travels - its sweet aroma is deadly. You thank him for his advice and press onwards. Turn to 81.;81
You leave the village. Sitting against the wall on the way out is a blindbeggar and, as you pass, he asks you for alms. He looks a sorry sight:skinny and sparsely clothed. His eyes are painted with a dark dye toindicate his blindness. You are considering whether to toss him aGold Piece when an ox cart comes up the road. Seeing you are astranger, the driver asks you if you would like a lift. Will you accepthis offer (turn to 129) or refuse and instead toss the beggar a GoldPiece (turn to 244)?;999
Draw your weapon and fight:MANTICORE skill 12 stamina 18Each time the creature inflicts a wound on you, you must roll one die.A roll of a 5 or 6 indicates a hit with its scorpion-like tail containing apoison which will cause 6 stamina points' worth of damage unlessyou successfully Test your Luck (if you are Lucky, the damage will benormal). If you roll a 1-4, the attack is normal. If you defeat thecreature, turn to 456.;999
You will have to heave with every ounce of strength in your body toforce the door open. Throw one die three times. If the total thrown isless than your skill score, the door breaks open and you may escape(turn to 120) - but you must lose 1 skill point. If the total thrownequals or exceeds your skill score, the door will not budge and youwill be trapped in the cave-in unless you can call for help from yourgoddess Libra (turn to 160).;999
One of the merchants has a friend who needs a cesspit in his back yardfilling in and a fresh one digging. This will take you most of the nightto do, but he will feed and pay you. If you wish to take up this offer,turn to 201, hut if not, you must look for the inn - turn to 134.;999
You enter the tavern and call to the proprietor. Glandragor himselfcomes out. He is a kindly type and is always happy to talk tostrangers. He is also a businessman, and a mug of ale will cost you 2Gold Pieces, Will you pay up, drink your ale and talk to him (turn to191) or do you have something for him (turn to 182)? If you cannotafford a drink, turn to 92,;999
Further along the river is another bridge over which the path leads.You cross the bridge and start heading up into the hills. The pathwinds for some time, taking the gradient leisurely. Suddenly an acornlands on your head and you hear a tittering coming from the treesabove. Looking up you can see tiny figures high in the branches,flying from tree to tree. Another acorn falls, then another. You arebeing pelted by ELV 1 NS! You may protect yourself with a spell:Z1P FQF WOK HOP YAG359 408 296 382 340If you do not wish to use a spell, turn to 85 .;999
It is now late afternoon. You pass over the brow of the next hill andbelow you is a village. The path leads into this village and you havelittle choice but to enter Torrepani.Torrepani is inhabited by the SVINNS, an aggressive-looking race ofman-ores. But as you enter the village, an air of depression hangingover the place becomes quite apparent. The Svinns take no notice ofyou and you sit down on a tree stump in the centre of the villagesurveying the miserable creatures. Will you head for the inn to spendthe night (turn to 267) or attempt to make contact with the villagers(turn to 282)?;999
The old man's eyes light up as you produce the axe. 1 Where did youget that?' he exclaims. You tell him the story and he takes it from you,overjoyed. Handing you a free mug of ale (you may add 2 staminapoints for this) he is overwhelmingly grateful and wishes to tell youall he knows to help you. 'First of all/ he says, 'you should visit theCrystal Waterfall. It has great powers of healing and soothing. Here isa pass which will allow you past the guardian (you need not pay if yougo). When you leave Birritanti you will reach Khare through Torre-pani. The Svinns live in Torrepani and no doubt their chief will try topersuade you to help find his daughter. She has been carried off bymarauders and left as a sacrifice in a dark cave guarded by a deadlyManticore. After Torrepani you will reach Khare within a day . In fact Iam well connected in Khare. If you have any problems in Khare, justcall for VIk, a friend of mine who has power and influence/ In Khare,VI K will be given as a spell option in some encounters. If given such anoption, you may choose it to take advantage of Glandragor's eon-nee lions* Glandragor also offers you a sword  a sturdy but ordinaryone - as a replacement weapon and wishes you well as you leave*Add 3 luck points for finding Glandragor* You may head for eitherthe Crystal Waterfall (turn to 102) or the inn (turn to 92).;999
The gate is open, but you are wary of continuing. This is no normalgate: it stands two or three times the size of any you have seen before.But the only way on is through it, so you continue - though carefully.To the right, the hill rises sharply upwards and you can see two caves.Will you enter the right-hand cave (turn to 207), the left-hand cave(turn to 221) or will you continue past the caves along the path (turn to 82)?;999
She shouts loudly after you and orders you back* She seems mostindignant that you have chosen to ignore her and warns you that youwill not go unpunished. Jann is curious and suggests you return tothe hut. If you reconsider and see what she wants, turn to 243* If youcontinue regardless, turn to 269.;999
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 118. If you are Unlucky, turn to 223;999
You continue up the hill. The climb is steep, but by mid-afternoon youhave reached the top. Continuing over the hill, you travel down agentle slope for the rest of the afternoon. Turn to 220.;999
Your guess is incorrect. With a wave of the hunchback's hand you feela sharp pain surge through your body* Lose 2 stamina points and 1luck point and return to the junction to take the other path (turn to 38).;999
The door opens on well-oiled hinges and you are in a pitch-blackpassageway. You may cast a spell if you wish:sus FAR FIX BAG HOW372 349 422 398 454Or you may grope down the passageway in the dark (turn to 6). Youmay decide against this passage and return through the room to thejunction (turn to 120)*;999
T have in my house Ragnar's Armband of Swordmastery , which 1 willgladly give to you if you will free me/ she promises. Will you try toopen the cage as she wishes (turn to 4) or doublecross her and searcharound for it anyway (turn to 213)?;999
If you wish to draw your weapon, turn to 2, If you would rather cast aspell, turn to 275. ,;999
A short while later, two Head Hunters return and take you from thecage* As they bustle you towards the pot, now steaming as the waterheats, you receive a blow on the head. You slump unconscious andnever re-awaken. You will provide the natives with fresh meattonight;999
The old woman invites you into her house and bids you sit down. Sheis lonely on her own in the woods and appreciates the company ofothers. Offering you a drink, she shuffles off into the kitchen andreturns with two large cups of tea, and one tiny one. Jann is a littlesuspicious and tells you so. The old woman glares at him andexpresses openly her disgust for Minimites. She has forgotten the potand returns to the kitchen to fetch it. You may, if you wish, switchyour cup of tea with hers (turn to 48) or you may wait for her to returnand drink the one she has given you (turn to 146).;999
You toss him a Gold Piece. 'You are kind, traveller/ the beggar says.Feeling the coin he becomes excited. 'Why, this is a Gold Piece! heexclaims. 'You are too generous to a poor sightless beggar. Generosityof this sort must not go unrewarded!' Taking a copper key from hispocket he gives it to you, insisting that you take it. 'Years ago I lived inKhare,' he tells you. 'Khare was my home and in the city port 1watched over prisoners in the gaol. But Khare is an evil place,inhabited by all manner of creatures. Beware the Red-Eyes in Khare ormy fate will befall you and you too will have to turn to begging for aliving. Khare is also wary of strangers, but this key will help youshould you be captured by the city guards.' The key has a number,206, stamped into it. You thank the beggar and continue. Turn to 58.;999
You creep by the sentry post unnoticed. Turn to 237.;999
As the second day of your journey breaks, you march through thecool morning air of the hills, having now climbed several hundredfeet. You reach the brow of a hill and stop in your tracks. To your left isa clearing in which several poles are firmly planted in the ground.Atop the poles are heads - some recently fixed, some semi-decayed -human heads, Goblin heads, and one or two heads of creatures youdo not recognize, all with sewn-up eyes and mouths. A large Xpainted on a broad tree is obviously intended as a warning to ventureno further. Ahead the path forks to the right and left, but you cannotbe sure which path vou are warned not to take! Will you continueyour climb along the right-hand path (turn to 68) or take the left-handpath which winds down the side of the hill (turn to 40)?;999
The skullcap has been stolen from a priest of Daddu-Ley. It has nomagical properties of its own but may be useful in spells. Turn to 75.;999
She hands you a small box. Opening the box you find it contains a miniature vial of glue, a pair of strange-looking nose plugs and four small pebbles - all useful in creating spells. Now turn to 87.;87
The pipe is made of bamboo and you blow it. It gives off a lively littlenote. You may take this with you. Turn to 126.;999
You leave Lea-Ki, the domain of the Hill Giants, and head onwards. Itis late afternoon and you may choose either a path running down thehill (turn to 176) or a path running along the crest of the hill (turn to 188).;999
The box is empty. But as you look inside, smoke begins to swell upfrom its depths. The smoke builds up and rises from the box in front ofyou. Slowly, a face forms in the air  a thin, elf-like face. You watch,transfixed, and suddenly its eyes flick open. Their piercing starereaches deep into your mind, and you are unable to move. 'Stranger/the mouth speaks, 'you tamper with forces you know nothing of. I amaware of your quest. You cannot succeed!'Will you use a spell:fog mac ris ran gak455 43 2 93 377 354Or will you try to escape from the room (turn to 124)?;999
Will you fight it with your weapon (turn to 20) or with a magic spell(turn to 166)?;999
Your guess is incorrect. With a wave of the hunchback's hand you feela sharp pain surge through your body. Lose 2 stamina points and 1luck point and return to the junction to take the other path (turn to 38).;999
You race off into the woods in case the commotion attracts any othercreatures. For half an hour you run before you stop to rest, when yourealize that you are now hopelessly lost. Which direction will youtake? Throw one die. If you throw a 1 or a 2, you continue uphill untilyou reach a path (turn to 68). If you roll a 3 or 4, you just head in the"direction you were travelling (turn to 13) until you reach a path. If youroll a 5 or 6, you take a downhill course until you reach a well-troddenpath (turn to 98).;999
The door opens. The room inside is dirty and sooty with dust from themines. It is square, and a door opposite leads onwards. Sitting behinda makeshift desk is a large, filthy GOBLIN who raises his head andsniffs the air as you walk in. His face is black with soot. Your smell isstrange, intruder!' he challenges. 'You are net permitted here!' Willyou prepare to fight him (turn to 47) or leave as he wishes (turn to120)?;999
The creature roars and reaches down to grab you. Unable to avoid it,you feel yourself gripped between its great thumb and forefinger. Thepain is excruciating as the creature squeezes but there is nothing youcan do. The Giant crushes you to death . . .;999
The inn offers hot meals for sale and if you wish to stop and eat thecharge will be 1 Gold Piece. Bread and goat's cheese are also availableif you wish to buy food to take with you, and the price of two meals'worth is 2 Gold Pieces. If you wish to sit down and eat, turn to 116. Ifyou wish to buy Provisions, do so and pay the 2 Gold Pieces. Or, ifyou wish to continue with or without new r Provisions, turn to 131,;999
You flip open the top of the box and jump back quickly. Inside the boxare 5 Gold Pieces and a key, but these are guarded by a viciousSCORPION. You may try if you wish to grab either the Gold Piecesor the key -but only one item at a time (i.e. Gold Pieces one by one).Each time you attempt a grab, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, yousucceed in grabbing an object. If you are Unlucky, you are stung bythe Scorpion and must lose half your stamina (round down any oddstamina points). When you are finished with this box, turn to 199 iyou took the key. Otherwise you may either try the other box (turn to251) or leave the village (turn to 196);999
You manage to avoid the Goblins and sneak off along a downhill pathinto the woods. Turn to 20a. ' ^;999
You are forced upwards against the ceiling as the water level rises. Butibra has not deserted you and an air pocket forms around your headAs you thrash about in the water, you are able to breathe easily andsoon you relax knowmg you are safe. After several minutes, thewa er drains off, leaving you on the ground unharmed, althoughsomewhat damp. The sealing wall disappears into the floor and youreturn to the large chamber to choose another passage. Will you takethe right-hand path (turn to 3) or the left-hand path (turn to 16)?;999
As you unstrap the pack, one of the bandits grabs it from your handsw u e the other leaps at you and clouts you with the hilt of his swordYou fall to the ground dazed and the bandits make off with vourbelongings. Lose zstamina points. You have now lost anvthingyouwere carrying in the backpack including gold and Provisions (but notyour sword). Eventually you pick yourself up and continue yourjourney. Turn to 131. 7;999
You are correct. The hunchback stands aside to let you pass As youstart across the bridge he wishes you well on your way. You marchswiftly across in case he may have some other trap in store. Butinstead he calls out a due which may be useful in the journey ahead.He is a sly old creature and you must be careful to mark his wordswell:'Beware the lair of the cave-demon 1 s maze .For traps as deadly as Medusa's gazeGreet travellers who , of luck bereft ,Take passageways not to the left . 'You consider these words as you cross the valley. You may add 2luck points for your success. On the other side of the bridge youfollow the path over the hill and down the other side. It is now lateafternoon* Turn to 220.;999
You finish the job well and in good time and the villager pays you 3Gold Pieces. You leave Dhumpus in the early morning light. Turn to 208.;999
He grunts and motions for you to follow, taking you through the village to a large hut. Inside, you discover that the building is evidently a storage house and a quartermaster, somewhat plumper than your guide, is seated at a table. The villager explains you wish todo business and leaves you with the fat man, who bids you take aseat. The merchant has the following items for sale. If you are interested in any of them, turn to the reference indicated: A herbalist's potion turn to 107. A fine-edged broadsword turn to 214. A musical pipe turn to 22. An axe with strange carvings turn to 141. A bag containing teeth turn to 5. A fine, glittering jewel turn to 60. If none of these interest you, turn to 163.;107,214,22,141,5,60,163
Exhausted from the battle, you examine the Giant and its domain asyou recover your breath. A pouch around its waist contains 8 GoldPieces, You may also take any part of the creature that you think maybe useful. A large loaf in the cave is too large for you to carry, but youmay eat from it if you wish (turn to 284), Otherwise turn to 250.Turn to 107Turn to 214Turn to 22Turn to 141Turn to 5Turn to 60;999
You find an ale-house and walk in. Gruff voices come from inside but,when you enter, the drinkers watch you suspiciously and the noisesubsides. Several Hill Dwellers sit around a table. The owner of thehouse tells you that you are in the village of Krista tan ti and that a mugof ale will cost you 1 Gold Piece, If you cannot afford this price you willhave to leave the ale-house (turn to 62). Otherwise you may pay him,take your drink and sit down at the table next to an old, wrinkled man(turn to 192) or a younger man with sharp features (turn to 96),;999
The inn serves hot food for 3 Gold Pieces and you may eat here if youcan afford it. If you have not yet eaten today, add 2 stamina points ifyou buy a meal (1 stamina point if you have already eaten), A bed forthe night costs 5 Gold Pieces. If you will sleep here, turn to 8. If youwould rather leave the village and sleep rough, turn to 35.;999
The door is locked. You may try charging the door down (turn to 93)or you may cast a spell POM PAP HUF HOW OOP351 311 374 449 2 9 1;999
Now screaming at you, she calls loudly into the air. A cracking to yourleft makes you wheel round, just in time to see a tree swaying as itstrunk splits and it falls towards you. Test your Luck > If you are Lucky,you spring aside just before it topples on you. If you are Unlucky, youare too late and the tree lands on you, crushing you and yourminiature companion to death. If you survive, turn to 276,;999
The bees swarm around you but you are powerless to defend yourselfas you must use your hands to grip the tree. Throw one die. If youthrow a 1-4, then this is the number of stamina points you lose asthe bees sting you. If you roll a 5 or 6, you are lucky and avoid beingstung. When you reach the hive, you knock it down to the ground.Cutting open the hive on the ground, you may take with you the waxand the honey. The honey will provide you with enough nourish-ment for one meal. Turn to 9.;999
You try knocking on another door. This time a voice calls 'Who isit?' and you enter. Turn to 158.;999
As you bite into your bread, a sharp pain in your leg makes you swinground. In a tree a short distance away, you can see the black face of aHEAD HUNTER leering at you as it lowers a blowpipe. You becomedizzy and pass out as the poison takes effect. Your head will soon bejoining the others on a pole at the last junction . . ,;999
Before your eyes the snakes form a living ladder, stretching back up tothe passage above! When it is formed, you may climb back up andreturn to the main chamber, where you may take either the right-hand (turn to 3) or the left-hand passage (turn to x6). Remember thatyou cannot call on Libra again now.;999
You open the stopper on the bottle of potion and take a sniff. Phew!The pungent odour of Blimberry juice hits your nostrils. Blimbcrry is astrange fruit which ordinarily would never be eaten by humans oranimals (having such a foul smell). But its medicinal properties havebeen discovered by all species and it appears to be nature's healer.You may take this potion at any time, except in battle, to restore 3stamina points. Or you may use the potion in sorcery. There isenough in the bottle for one dose. Turn to 126.;999
You snatch your arm back against the pull and, as you do so, a shapebegins to form in front of you. You are now facing a large, two-tailedSERPENT which hisses menacingly at you. One of its tails is wrap-ped around your arm. Which spell will you use?KIL SUN GOP LAW HOW3M 404 334 355 426If you cannot, or choose not to, use any of these, you will have to armyourself. Turn to 2.;999
As you pick yourself up, the old woman suddenly appears in front ofyou. 'You may not ignore the invitation of Gaza Moon!' she says, andshe points a finger at you. A blue crackle from her hand takes youunawares as a lightning blast flies towards you. Will you defendyourself with a spell:ff you are a warrior you have no escape from the blast,ZIP GUM LAM FIL SUS322 434 4*8 304 39*If you know none of these, the blast hits you and charred remains areall that are left of you. The Sorceress Gaza Moon must not beignored . . .;999
The fall is not too far, but there is a chance of injury. Throw two diceand compare the total with your luck score. If the total is less thanyour luck, you are unhurt. If the total equals your luck, deduct 1stamina point for minor bruising. If the total exceeds your luck,deduct 3 stamina points as you have badly twisted your arm. If youthrow a double six f then you have landed on your head, breaking yourneck in the fall and your adventure ends here. Turn to 110 if you didnot die.;999
You follow the path back up to the junction and continue towardsDhumpus, Turn to 54,;999
When you awake, you find yourself inside a hut with your handsbound. Seeing you stir, a creature by the door jumps to its feet. In factit jumps above its feet and now hovers attentively in the air, watchingyou. Your guard is man-Jike but short and thin. You have beencaptured by ELVINS!Elvins are impish creatures, more mischievous than malevolent.They love pranks and practical jokes. Soon several have gathered inyour room. They ask whether you are a magician and, if so, will youshow them some tricks. If you will perform for them, turn to 132,Otherwise turn to 218.;999
If you have investigated only one or two of his offerings, you may choose another from the list below. But if you have considered three artefacts already, you may not try a fourth and you must leave the merchant - turn to 91. The herbalist's potion Turn to 107 The broadswordTurn to 214 The musical pipe Turn to 22 The axe Turn to 141 The bag of teeth Turn to 5 The jewel Turn to 60;107,214,22,141,5,60
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, they do not notice you - you go backto sleep and set off again at sunrise (turn to 148). If you are Unlucky,one of them sees you across the stream and points you out to theothers - turn to 12.;999
You approach a group of Svinns deep in conversation and take a seatwith them. They are discussing a friend, apparently killed in the nightby an assassin s blade. Gradually you work your way into theconversation and you soon learn the reason for the depression whichhangs over the village. The village chief's daughter has been capturedby a band of marauders and offered as a sacrifice to a powerful cavedemon. According to an ancient prophecy, a dreadful scourge willoverrun the village if the chiefs line ever ends - and his daughter isthe chief's only heir.You tell them of your own travels and the creatures you have met.They realize you are a truly heroic adventurer and become veryinterested in you. Suddenly one springs at you while another runs offinto the village. You are held fast in a vice-like grip, but as youstruggle more Svinns arrive. They march you off to a hut at the edge ofthe village. Turn to 71,;999
You settle down to make camp for the night. You may take Provisionshere and, if you do so, you may add 2 stamina points if you have notyet eaten since leaving Analand, or 1 stamina point if you havealready eaten on your journey. You may only eat if you have Provi-sions with you. As you curl up in your blanket to sleep, there is achance that you may encounter a wandering night creature. Rememberthis reference (as you will return here afterwards) and turn to 123.Night creatures are less likely to approach you in your camp, so youmay add 2 points to the die roll you will be required to make.After your night's sleep you may add either 2 stamina points, if youencountered no night creatures, ori stamina point if your sleep wasdisturbed. Then you set off along the trail. Turn to 31.;999
The loaf is not particularly pleasant, but is fairly nourishing. You maymake a meal of it and restore 2 stamina points. Then turn to 250.;999
You may either fight the Ogre with your weapon OGRE skill 8 stamina 7If you win, turn to 15, Alternatively you may cast a spell wok wal kil dim rok400 352. 331 375 312;999
As you have no doubt already learned, Jann will not leave you. Andwhile he is with you, your magic will not work. You may not use anyspells until you rid yourself of this little pest. Now turn to 197,;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 87 and choose again.;87
Deduct 4 stamina points. Your spell creates an invisible force fieldaround you. Try as they may, the Bandits cannot harm you or evenget close to you. Realizing the power of your sorcery, they run backinto the village, allowing you to continue. Turn to 131.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 47and choose again.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. You falldown into the pit. Turn to 277.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. The door shudders and the handle turns.On your guard, you watch as it opens, allowing you into the roominside. Turn to 39.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You concentrate and slowly focus yourmind on a large rock in the corner of the hut. Before their eyes, thisrock turns into a glittering pile of treasure. They gasp, as they can seejewels, gold, silver and gems forming from nothing. They chatterexcitedly and nod towards you, smiling happily. One of them ven-tures over to touch the treasure and, as he does so, you release thespell. The Elvins are impressed with your trick and return your back-pack, soon allowing you to leave the village. Turn to 196.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points There is no such spell as this, and the spiri tlaughs as you try to cast it. Turn to 124.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 203and choose again.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast your spell and, with a flash, fivereplicas of yourself appear in front of the creature. It chooses one ofthese images to attack. Choose which of the images is the real you bynoting down a number between one and six. Then roll one die todetermine which image the creature goes for. If you roll the samenumber as you have chosen for yourself, it has been lucky andselected the real you! Turn to 20 to resolve the combat. If it does notchoose the real you, you may escape from it and continue. Turn to 193.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. Do you have a Gold Piece with you? If not,your spell will not work - turn to 85. If you have a Gold Piece, youplace it on your wrist and cast your spell. An invisible shield formsaround it, large enough for you to hide behind. You are able to passsafely through the hail of acorns - but you lose your Gold Piece. Turn to 7.;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You hold up your hand and cast the spell.A small burning fireball materializes in your palm and you fling it atthe Wood Golem. The creature catches fire immediately and shrieksloudly. A Hanna runs off for water to douse the fire before her housegoes up, and you make a hasty exit. Turn to 169.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast your spell and wait for it to takeeffect. Almost immediately, you start to expand. Your whole bodybegins to grow until you are almost three times your normal size. Thisallows you to finish the job quite quickly and you manage to get half anight's sleep. Add 2 stamina points, then turn to 263.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. Do you have any Blimberry juice with you?If not, you must return to 158 and choose again. If you can cast thespell over Blimberry juice, you do so and sprinkle the enchanted juiceon to the villagers. At first this appears to burn them, but then thehealing potion takes effect. This is a plague village  everyone in it hasplague. You have just healed this family and they are on their knees,thanking you. You talk to them for some time and they give you oneimportant warning  Beware the Black Lotus Flower. Eventually youleave. Turn to 220.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cast the spell but nothing happens.Return to 220 and choose again.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cannot use this spell as you do nothave the Gold-Backed Mirror it requires. Draw your weapon and turn to 227.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. The creature advances and you cast yourspell. You panic as nothing happens! You cannot use this spell as youdo not have the Potion of Fire Water it requires. The Manticore whipsround its tail and, although you try your best to evade it, the stinggrazes your arm. Deduct 6 stamina points. If you will now drawyour weapon and fight, turn to 227. If you would prefer to castanother spell, turn to 364.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. Do you have any small pebbles with you? Ifnot, you must return to 63 and choose again quickly. If you have anysmall pebbles, you cast the spell on them and toss them at the snakes.They explode on impact, killing several of the snakes and frighteningthe others. You throw three such missiles and have given yourselfsome breathing space. However, on consideration, there seems to beno way you can escape from the pit unless you are able to call onLibra. If you have not yet used her help, turn to 273. Otherwise thereis little you can do. Your journey has ended here . . .;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. You cast your spell but nothing happens.The blast hits you in the chest, killing you instantly. Your journeyends here . . .;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You cast your spell and wait for thelightning bolt to shoot at the assassin. But nothing happens! TheMinimite screams at you, 'Don't waste your time on spells. Minimitesare protected - though it is sometimes a curse- with a protection aura .You cannot cast spells when I am about!' You must return to 117 andfight the assassin.;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You cast the spell - but nothing happens!the little creature chuckles, 'You are wasting your time with magicwhile I'm around/ it laughs. Turn to 171.;999
As you try desperately to make your spell work, the creaturepounces. Its huge weight lands on you and its claws rip your clothes.That deadly sting comes over at you, but you are powerless to defendyourself. It pierces your chest. Shortly the poison will take effect. Youhave failed in your mission . . ,;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. Do you have a bamboo flute with you? Ifnot, you should not be at this reference and must deduct a further 3stamina points as the Bandits attack and turn back to 104. If youhave such a flute, you may take it from your bag, cast your spell andplay. The angry faces of the Bandits turn to expressions of astonish-ment as they find Iheir limbs jerking in time to the music, quite out ofcontrol They drop their swords and are soon dancing merrily beforeyou. Piping loudly, you direct them back to the village and, as theydance off, you condnue your journey. Turn to 131.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cast the spell unsuccessfully, as you donot have the skullcap it requires. The Goblin seizes its chance andattacks you fiercely. Deduct another 3 stamina points and return to 47 to choose again.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 66and choose again. But hurry!;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 268and choose again.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cannot use this spell as you do nothave the stone dust it requires. The Ogre swings its fist and knocksyou back against a wait. Deduct another 2 stamina points, return to285 and choose again.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. You have chosen a non-existent spell*Return to 166 and choose again.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 275 and choose again*;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 74 and choose again.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points as you cast the spell. You cast it, not overyourself, but over one of the Eivins who seems to be in charge* Theothers stand agog as he suddenly duplicates until six replicas stand infront of them! The leader laughs - or rather all six of them laughtogether - and the sight is most amusing. Soon all the Eivins arelaughing and the leader and his replicas hold out their hands to shakewith their comrades* Five of the other Eivins, of course, grasp thin air.The spell soon wears off and the creatures congratulate you, return-ing your backpack and allowing you to leave the village. Turn to 196.;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You cast the spell and the creature looksconfused. It steps forwards and kicks the staff of the halberd, knock-ing it out of its hands. Cursing, it picks the weapon up, merely to dropit again! You may seize your chance and attack. While under the effectof the spell, the Troll will fight at:TROLL SENTRY skill 4 stamina 7The speil will last for 4 Attack Rounds and will then wear off* Beforeeach Attack Round after the fourth, roll one die. If the number is odd,the Troll cannot regain his halberd and will continue fighting with askill of 4. If you roll an even number, it will regain its weapon andfight wiih a skill of 8. Turn to 177 if you win.;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You cast the spell and point your finger atthe hole. With a flash, a burst of lightning flies from your fingertip andblasts the ground* Earth Hies all around and, as you see when the air clears, you have created a fine hole, a little rough around the edges,but nevertheless you have saved yourself a lot of work. You settledown to sleep for the rest of the night. You may recover the 3stamina points you would have lost for missing a night's sleep. Turn to 263.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cast the spell and wait for something tohappen, but nothing does. You do not have a Giant's tooth which youmay cast this speil on. Turn to 256.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 4and choose again.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast your spell, but nothing happens!The Minimite tells you not to w f aste your energy on spells while he isaround, Will you continue (turn to 73) or return and take the otherpath (turn to 51)?;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. You cast your spell but nothing happens.Unable to defend yourself, the blast hits you in the chest* You cry outIn pain and drop to the ground. Your journey has ended here . . .;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You cast your spell just in time, and yourinvisible wall blocks off the passage. The great boulder hits it withsome considerable force, causing the whole cave to shake. It bouncesoff your barrier and rolls back up the slope. You must now continueeither by returning to the last junction and taking the other fork (turnto 63) or by returning to the main chamber and taking the otherpassage (turn to 16).;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cannot use this spell as you do nothave the Gale horn it requires. Turn to 64,;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. The creature makes a half turn andprepares to swing its stinging tail at you. But as you cast the spell, itpauses briefly and shakes its head, as if something has hit it. Itsmovements become slow and you may now seize your chance toeither attack it with your weapon (turn to 227) or cast an attackingspell (turn to 364) , If you choose to attack, it will fight at half ski ll forthe first 4 Attack Rounds.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points . There is no such spell as this . T urn to 307.;999
There is no such spell as this. Deduct 5 points from your staminaand return to 104,;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. Do you have any beeswax with you? If not,you must deduct 3 extra stamina points as the Goblin attacks andreturn to 47. if you do have beeswax, you may rub it on your swordand return to 47, Fight the Goblin as normal, but you may double anydamage you inflict on the Goblin while your sword has been magic-ally sharpened. The effect will only last for this fight, and you haveused up half your beeswax.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You try in vain to cast the spell as you donot have the Gale horn it requires. As you recite your spell again andagain, the ceiling collapses entirely. There is nothing you can do asyou are buried for ever in the rubble . , .;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. Your spell will not work as you do notpossess the Jewel-Studded Medallion you need to complete it. Youfall down into the pit Turn 10277, where you will be required to makea dice roll. Since you have been fumbling unsuccessfully with yourspell, you must add 3 points to the dice roll.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return 10285and choose again.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cast the spell but nothing happens.You cannot use this spell as you do not have the Brass Pendulum itrequires. You must draw your weapon and fight, Turn to 20,;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. Your spell is, however ineffective. Youcannot cast spells when your hands are bound! You have wasted yourefforts. Turn to 112.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 275and choose again.;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You cast the spell quickly and pointtowards the beast, A lightning blast shoots from your fingertip andcatches the Wolfhound square in the forehead. It drops to the ground,dead. Turn to 50.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. You cast the spell but nothing happens.Turn back to 220 and choose again.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return 10158and choose again.;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You cast the spell and the club drops out ofthe Giant's hand. It grunts and reaches down to retrieve it. Takinganother step, it again drops the dub. Your spell is working! Twicemore it does this until it eventually leaves the dub on the floor andattacks you with its bare hands. You will have to fight it, but withoutits weapon:HILL GIANT skill 6 stamina 11If you win, turn to 265.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. Do you have a Bamboo Flute with you? If not, the Wood Golem attacks for 2 stamina points' worth of damage - return to 87 and choose again. If you have a Bamboo Pipe, you pull it out of your backpack, cast your spell and play. The Golem stops and looks at you strangely. Its shoulders shrug and it shivers. It looks around and one leg starts twitching on the floor. Uncontrollably it takes a little leap forward, then hops back, landing neatly on its toes, it cannot understand what is happening! The bulky creature is doing a little dance in front of you! You keep it occupied while you back off towards the door. Turn to 169.;169
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 231 and choose again.;231
Deduct 5 stamina points. You cast your spell but nothing happens. Will you continue (turn to 73) or return and take the other path (turnto 51)?;73,51
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cast the spell but nothing happens.Return to 117 and choose again.;117
Deduct 1 stamina point. Unfortunately, you do not have the Staff o fOak Sapling that this spell requires and your poor choice has left you no time to plan an alternative escape. The great boulder rolls over you, crushing you on to the floor. Your journey has ended here , , .;-1
Deduct 3 stamina points. There is no such spell as this and, as you try to make it work, the snakes are upon you. This is the end of yourjourney. . .;-1
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this and, while you have been trying unsuccessfully to cast it, the creature whips its tail round to sting you. You fall to the floor to avoid it. Will you now attack it with your weapon (turn to 227) or will you cast another spell (turn to 364)?;227,364
Deduct 4 stamina points. Your spell creates a large fireball in your hand, which you fling at the beast. It hits the Manticore in the sideand the creature roars out in pain. You may turn to 420 to finish it off.;420
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cannot choose this spell as you do nothave the Ring of Green Metal it requires. Turn to 307.;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You cast your spell and wait. The Banditspause, expecting something to happen . . . but nothing does! Thisspell works only on non -intelligent creatures. The Bandits leap at youand one gashes your arm with his sword, inflicting 2 stam in a pointsof damage. Return to 104 either to cast another spell or to draw yourweapon.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cannot cast this spell as you do nothave the Orb of Crystal it requires. Deduct a further 2 staminapoints as you try without success to make the spell work. Return to239 and choose again.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 66and choose again.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 268and choose again.;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You cast the spell and, as the Ogre leaps toattack, it collides with something solid. You have stopped it with yourinvisible wall. You may now escape from the mom while holding theOgre at bay. On your way out you may grab a gem from the table - theOgre's job was to grind the rocks mined from the mine into suchgems. This gem is worth 10 Gold Pieces. You may use it to buy thingsand barter, but you will not be given change, no matter how little yourpurchase costs. Turn to 144.;999
Deduct T stamina point. You try the spell, but nothing happens asyou do not have the Bracelet of Bone it requires. The Elvins are notimpressed and quickly bind your hands again - only this time tighter,causing you some pain and the loss of another stamina point. Turnto 218.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. Tool/ calls out the Spirit, 'I know that spellwell. Do you not have the Black Facemask that it requires?" You do nothave the mask and, in panic, you try to leave the hut. Turn to 124.;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. Holding your hands up, you commandthe serpent to release you. It does so and backs off into the bushes.You watch it retreat until it slowly vanishes from sight. Turn to 137.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast the spell and immediately beginto grow larger. Within moments you stand three times your normalsize. The Elvin looks on with awe and hesitates, not sure whether tofight or fly. You may either attack it or Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,the creature will fly off, its companions following it into the woodsand allowing you to settle back down to sleep. You awake at sunrise -turn to 148. If you are Unlucky, the Elvin will continue its battle. If youend up fighting the creature, return to 203 and have your battle, butbecause of your size you may double your skill score.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. In fact youdiscover that you are unable to cast a spell anyway, as your hands arebound (remember this in future). Turn to 112,;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cannot cast this spell as you do nothave the Green-Haired Wig it requires. The Goblins spring at you andattack. Lose 2 stamina points as the first Goblin slashes at you.Return to 217 but you may not choose another spell  you must drawyour weapon and fight them.;999
Deduct i stamina point. You cast the spell and wait Nothinghappens. You cannot use this spell as you do not have the Ring ofGreen Metal it requires. Turn to 85.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. Do you ha ve any beeswax with you? If not,you may not cast this speli - return to 4 and choose again. If you havebeeswax, you may wipe it on to your weapon to enhance its effect.Turn to 142 and try smashing the lock. But you may deduct 2 pointsfrom the dice roll you make against skill and, if you succeed insmashing the lock on your first attempt, you need not lose the skillpenalty.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. Do you have a Giant's tooth? If not, turn to256. If you have found one on your travels, you drop it on the floorand cast your spell on it. The great creature watches inquisitively,then you both jump back as a plume of smoke rises into the air. Out ofthe smoke steps another Giant, though this one will do your bidding.You command him to fight:HILL GIANT skill 9 stamina tiMAGICAL GIANT skill 8 stamina 9Resolve this battle. If the Hill Giant defeats your champion, you willhave to finish the battle off yourself. If your Giant wins, he will thendisappear and you may turn to 265.;999
Deduct I stamina point. You cannot use this spell as you do nothave the Potion of Fire Water it requires. Return to 201 and chooseagain.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cannot use this spell as you do nothave the Sun Jewel it requires. As you try to get it to work, the Trollleaps and slashes at your leg, causing 2 stamina points' worth ofdamage. Return to 99, but you must now fight the Troll.;999
As the Manticore turns to face you, you may cast an attacking spell:yob kin hot gob kil388 301 346 369 395If you know' none of these, draw your weapon and turn to 227.;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You cast your spell and an invisible forcefield forms itself around you, sealing you into a pocket of air.Although the water floods around you, you are quite safe. Afterseveral moments, the sealing wall lowers and the waiter drains off.You may continue by either returning to the junction and taking theother fork (turn to 151) or going back to the main chamber and takingthe other passageway (turn to 3).;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cannot use this spell as you do nothave the Jewel-Studded Medallion it requires. While you arc trying tocast it, the snakes have taken an interest in you. Roll one die, This isthe number of stamina points that you lose when they bite you. Ifyou roll a six, one of the bites has been poisonous and you must Testyour Luck- if you are Lucky, you survive  if you are Unlucky, you diefrom the poison. If you are still alive, return to 63 and choose again.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. Do you have a vial of glue with you? If notyou must think of another means of escape (turn to 83). If you havesome glue, you cast your spell and fling the vial at the passage floor infront of the boulder. Sweating with anxiety, you breathe a sigh ofrelief as the huge rock rolls on to the glue and holds fast. The wholearea shakes with the tremendous strain. You may now either go backto the junction in the passage and take the other fork (turn to 63) orreturn to the main chamber and take the other passage (turn to 16).;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. Von cast the spell and wait for somethingto happen, but nothing does. Return to 117 and choose again.;999
Do you have any Goblins' teeth with you? If so you may throw asmany as you wish on to the ground and cast your spell. Deduct 1stamina point per tooth. With a cloud of smoke, this number ofGoblins now stand before you and you may command them to attackthe Manticore, Resolve the battle (the Goblins will attack one after theother):MANTICORE skill 12 stamina 18GOBLINS SKILL 5 STAMINA 3Each time the Manticore hits a Goblin, roll one die. On a roll of 5 or 6, itwill have stung with its poisonous tail, killing the Goblin. 1-4 is anormal hit. If your Goblins win, turn to 456. If the Manticore defeatsall your Goblins, you may either finish the job with your sword (turnto 227) or cast another spell (turn to 420).;999
Deduct 3 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Turn to 307,;999
Deduct t stamina point. You have chosen a spell you are not able touse as you do not have the Pearl Ring it requires. Lose another 3stamina points as the Bandits attack and return to 104 to makeanother choice.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast your spell and begin to get astrong feeling that there is danger ahead, A voice inside tells you notto go this way. Will you heed this warning and return to the junctionor continue regardless? If you wish to continue, turn to 6. If you willturn back, turn to 120.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast the spell and wait anxiously. Thehuge door creaks on its hinges and slowly opens, just in time for youto nip through before the ceiling collapses f Turn to 120.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. This spell will not work as you do not havethe Galehorn it requires. Return to 268 lo try another choice,;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast the spell and wait for it to takeeffect. The Ogre lunges at you but suddenly stops and shakes itshead, looking at itself, then at you, with a puzzled expression. It takesa step forward, then grunts and steps backwards, thoroughly con-fused, You may either fight il now in its incapacitated state (it willfight with a skill of 4 and a stamina of 7) and, if you win, turn to 15.Alternatively you may leave the room (turn to 144).;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this and theElvins are not impressed as you unsuccessfully try to cast it. Theybind your hands again, only this time tighter, causing you some pain.Turn to 218.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points* There is no such spell as this, and theSpirit laughs as you try to cast it. Turn to 124.;999
Deduct i stamina point. You cannot use this spell as you do nothave the Pearl Ring it requires. While you are trying to get it to work,the Elvin sweeps in and attacks again. Deduct another 3 staminapoints. Return to 203 and choose again.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. In fact youmay not cast a spell anyway, as your hands are bound (remember thisin future). Turn to 112,;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You cast your spell and hold your hands inthe air. You command it to hold its ground. It is not too happy withyou, but does not move and you are able to step round it. Turn to 118.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points . There is no such spell as this. Return to 217and choose again.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 231and choose again,;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. Y ou cast the spell and the creature stops , Ittakes a step forward but its actions have become sluggish under yourspell. Return to 87 and fight it  for the first four Attack Rounds, theWood Golem will fight with a skill of 4,;999
Deduct i stamina point. You cast the spell and wait for something tohappen. Nothing does. You cannot use this spell without the PearlRing it requires. The Hill Giant watches you, then swings its club,clipping your side as you spring backwards. Lose 2 stamina pointsand turn to 256,;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cannot use this spell as you do nothave the Black Facemask it requires. Return to 158 and choose again.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. Do you have a Gold Piece with you? If not,return to 99 and choose again. If you do have such a coin, you place iton your wrist and cast your spell. The coin sticks and you can feel aninvisible shield bound to your wrist. You may now fight the TrollSentry with extra defence:TROLL SENTRY skill 8 stamina 7Because of your shield, you may deduct 2 from the Troll's throw onAttack Strength. If you win, turn to 177. After the fight, you must losethe Gold Piece, which becomes useless metal,;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast your spell -but nothing happens!You are puzzling this out, when the little creature chuckles. 'You arewasting your time using your magic while I'm around!' it says. Turn to 171,;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. Do you have a Giant's tooth with you? Ifnot, you cannot cast this spell and must turn to 227 to defend yourselfwith your weapon. If you do have a Giant's tooth, you place it on thefloor and cast your spell, A cloud of smoke appears around the toothand, as it dears, a large Giant stands in its place! You command theGiant to attack the Manticorc and it turns towards the startled beast.Resolve this battle:MANTICORE skill 12 stamina 18GIANT skill 8 stamina 9Each time the Manticore hits the Giant, you must roll one die. A roll of5 or 6 indicates a hit with the sting in its tail, which is poisonous, andwill do 6 stamina points' worth of damage, A roll of 1-4 indicatesnormal damage. If your Giant wins, turn to 45^- ^ Manticorewins, you may either finish the job off yourself (turn to 227) or castanother spell (turn to 420);999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this, so nothinghappens. You duck quickly as it swings its deadly tail round and triesto sting you. If you now wish to draw your weapon and fight, turn to227. If you wish to cast another spell, turn to 364,;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast the spell and wait. From some-where inside, a voice warns you that the situation is not good. Youronly hope is to empty your backpack, open it out to fill with air, andhold it tightly over your face up to the ceiling. This you do. Test yourLuck. If you are Lucky, you manage to trap sufficient air to save youbefore the deluge fills the room. If you are Unlucky, you lose hold ofthe bag and must try another method of escape (turn to 64). If youwere Lucky, the water eventually drains when the wall behind youlowers. You may return to the junction and take the other fork (turn to151) or go back to the main chamber and take the other passageway(turn to 3). You may collect your belongings from the floor, butanything that would have been spoiled by the water (e.g. Provisions)is now lost for ever.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. You havenow left yourself no time to plan an alternative escape and, in a flash,the boulder is on you, crushing you beneath it. Your journey hasended here . . .;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast your spell but nothing happens.The Minimite shrieks, cursing himself. He is protected from magicwith an anti-magic aura, and most spells will not work in his pres-ence. Unfortunately it is a little too late to learn this, as the lightningblast hits you. Your journey ends here . , .;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. You cast the spell but nothing happens.Return to 117 and choose again.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast your spell, but nothing happens!The Minimite tells you not to waste your energy on spells while he isaround. Will you continue (turn to 73) or return and take the otherpath (turn to 51)?;999
Deduct 3 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 364and choose again.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this . Return to 123and choose again.;999
Deduct 3 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 47and choose again.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 239and choose again.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. Your fall is broken and you float gentlydown to the ground below, landing softly on your knees. Turn to 1x0.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. Do you have a Gold Piece with you? If not,deduct 2 extra stamina points when the Ogre leaps at you andattacks while you fumble with your spell (return to 285). If you dohave a coin, you place it on your wrist and cast the spell. You can feelan invisible shield fixed to your wrist and you may now fight the Ogreat an advantage. Turn back to 285 and fight the Ogre, hut you maydeduct 2 points from the Ogre's throw when he rolls for AttackStrength each round. After the fight is over, you must lose the GoldPiece  it is transformed to a useless metal by the spell;999
Do you have a Goblin's tooth with you? If not, you try in vain to castthe spell and the Eivins are not impressed, tying your hands andkicking you angrily (lose 2 stamina points and turn to 218). If you dohave a tooth, you cast your spell over it (deduct 1 sta m in a point) andit forms into a Goblin before their eyes. At first they are apprehensive~ they do not like Goblins - but they relax a little as you show themyou have complete control over your creation. You can make it dancea jig, stand on its head and even sing (although this causes scores ofprotests - Goblins have the most tuneless voices imaginable). As afinale, you make it bow down before them and kiss their boots. As theGoblin disappears, the Eivins congratulate you. After a brief chat,they return your backpack and allow you to continue on your way.Turn to 196.;999
Deduct i stamina point. You cannot use this spell as you do nothave the Green -Haired Wig it requires. As you try to cast it, the beastleaps at you and sinks its teeth into your forearm. Deduct 3 staminapoints. You must now draw your weapon and fight it - return to 74and resolve the battle.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast the spell and an expression ofpain comes over the Spirit's face. 'Refract that spell!' it screams. 'Orfeel the wrath of Manankal But its threat is an idle one and the face isdisappearing before you. The smoke is quickly collecting togetherand returning to the box. You are safe. If you have not done soalready, von may try the other box (turn to 258). Otherwise you mayleave the village (turn to 196).;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cannot use this spell as you do nothave the Sun Jewel it requires. While you are trying in vain to make itwork, the Serpent strikes. Lose another 2 stamina points. Return to 275 and choose again.;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. Hinging your hand forward and castingthe spell, a shower of small fireballs burst into the air around the littleElvin. Several of them hit the creature, burning its wings and causingit to drop from the air like a flaming torch. Turn to 121.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You will now learn an important rule: youcannot cast spells while your hands are bound! You have wasted yourefforts. Turn to 112;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You cast the spell and point at the firstGoblin, A streak of lightning shoots from your finger and catches thecreature square in the chest, killing it instantly. The other two stop intheir tracks, deciding whether to continue the attack. Roll two dice foreach of the remaining Goblins. If the number rolled for either (or both)of them is equal to or higher than their skill score, this means it willturn and flee into the woods. Otherwise it will, continue its attack.Their scores are:SECOND GOBLIN skill 6 stamina 4THIRD GOBLIN skill 5 stamina 5If you have to fight either of these, and win, turn to 155. If they bothflee, turn to 202.;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You cast your spell and suddenly theacorn hail ceases. The Elvins look on with wonder as their nutsbounce off an invisible shield. You move smartly onwards until thespell wears off. Turn to 7.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast the spell at the lock. It begins to hum quietly and little clicks indicate that the tumblers are moving.Eventually it swings apart and you may open the cage. The woman thanks you. She will now reward you for your help. Would you like a magical item (turn to 248) or an aid in combat (turn to 122)?;248,122
Deduct 1 stamina point. You fumble with your spell, which does notseem to work. The Wood Golem attacks and smashes you for 2stamina points' worth of damage. You cannot use this spell as youdo not have the Gold-Backed Mirror it requires. Return to 87 andchoose again.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast the spell and wait. Slowly, theground moves further from you. You are growing larger! The HillGiant watches in disbelief while you grow to his size. You may nowfight the Giant:HILL GIANT skill 9 stamina iiBut you may double your skill while you are under the influence ofthis spell. If you win, turn to 265,;999
Deduct 5 stamina points . There is no such spell as this * Return to 201and make another choice.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 158and choose again.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 99and choose again.;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. The creature makes a half turn and swingsits deadly tail. But as its sting whips towards you, it hits the invisibleforce field you have created and does you no damage. Will you nowcast an attacking spell (turn to 364) or draw' your weapon and fight it(turn to 227)?;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Turn to 64.;999
Deduct 3 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. The snakesare now upon you and are beginning to attack. Roll one die. If you roll1-5, this is the number of stamina points of damage you mustsustain. If you roll a 6, the bites are poisonous and you are nowspending your last minutes before the poison takes its deadly effect... If you have survived, turn back to 63 and choose again.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. You cast your spell but nothing happens.The blast hits you in the chest, killing you instantly. Your journeyends here . . .;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cast your spell but nothing happens.Will you continue (turn to 73) or return and take the other path (turnto 51)?;999
If you do not have enough stamina left to cast a spell, you may turnto 227 and fight the creature with your weapon. Otherwise, chooseyour spell:ZIP NIT FIF WAL SOD347 326 436 447 370;999
Deduct i stamina point. You cannot use this spell as you do nothave the vial of glue you need to cast it. Meanwhile the night creaturehas attacked and inflicted 2 stamina points' worth of damage.Return to 123 and choose again.;999
Deduct i stamina point. You cannot cast this spell as you do nothave the Staff of Oak Sapling it requires. Deduct a further 2 staminapoints as you try without success to make it work. Then return to 239and choose again.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast your spell. From somewherewithin, a voice speaks to you, telling you to cast the dop spell to openthe door. This is your only hope unless you are strong enough tobreak down the door. Return to 66 and choose again.;999
Deduct 2 stamin a points. You fall down into the pit, hut your bodymoves in the air as if to anticipate your landing. Turn to 277, whereyou will be required to make a dice roll. Because of your spell, youmay deduct 3 points from the dice roll and you may ignore the extrapenalty on a roll of double 6.;999
Do you have any Goblins' teeth with you? If so, you may throw asmany as you want on to the floor and cast your spell on them. Youmust deduct i stam i n a point per Goblin you create . Each Goblin willhave a skill of 5 and a stamina of 5 and you may command anattack on the Wolfhound. If your creations kill the beast, turn to 50  ifnot, finish if off yourself and turn to 50 if you succeed. If you do nothave any Goblins' teeth, then you try in vain to cast the spell and theWolfhound leaps at your throat, causing you 3 stamina points'worth of damage - you will have to fight it:WOLFHOUND skill 7 stamina 6Turn to 50 if you win.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. The Serpent is ready to attack, but waitsfor you to move. From within, a feeling of peace comes over you asyou look at the creature. You relax a little and the Serpent suddenlydisappears once more  but you could swear it winked at you before itvanished. It still grips your arm, and pulls you. You decide tocontinue your journey. Turn to 94.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 166and choose again.;999
Deduct 3 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. The Goblinsare quickly on you and attack you for 2 stamina points' worth ofdamage. You may, if you wish, Testyour Luck and if you are Lucky youavoid this attack. Return to 217 and fight them or cast another spell.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cannot use this spell as you do nothave the Potion of Fire Water it requires. Return to 4 and chooseagain,;999
Deduct 3 stamina points. There is no such spell as this, Turn to 256,;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You cast the spell and a protective force-field surrounds your body. You may turn to 79, but no harm will be-fall you as there will be no contact between you and any of thevillagers.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. While youare reciting it, the Troll springs at you, and a lucky blow knocks you tothe floor. Before you can rise, the creature is on you, sinking its slimyteeth into your throat. Your journey has ended here . . ,;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You cast the spell and, commanding thesnakes, they back away from you. For the present, you are safe. Buthow may you escape from the pit? If you have not yet called on helpfrom Libra, turn to 273, But if you have already used her help, there islittle you can do but hold the snakes off until your stamin a runsout-your journey has ended here , , .;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cast the spell but nothing happens.You panic, but there is little you can do to avoid the deadly blast. Yourjourney is over . . .;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. You cast your spell, but nothing happensWill you continue (turn to 73) or return and take the other path (turnto 51)?;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Turn to 307;999
Deduct 5 stamina points . There is no such spell as this. Return to 1 2 tand choose again.;999
Deduct 4 stamina points. You cast the spell and a bolt of lightningshoots from your fingertip at the creature, hitting it square in thechest. It reels and falls backwards, dead, on to the floor. Turn to 186.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. You falldown into the pit. Turn to 277,;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return 1074and choose again.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. Do you have a Gold Piece with you? If not,the spell does not work and the little Elvin zips down and cuts youagain for 2 stamina points' worth of damage (return to 203 andchoose again). If you have a coin, you place it on your wrist and castthe spell. An invisible shield forms around your forearm, and youmay use this in defence. Return to 203 and fight the Eivin, butbecause of your shield you may deduct 2 points from the Elvin's diceroll for Attack Strength each round. After the fight, the Gold Pieceis no longer usable.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point and cast your spell. Do you have anybeeswax with you? If so, you have rubbed it on your sword and it nowhas been magically enhanced. Return to 217 and fight the Goblins but,each time you hit a Goblin, you may double the damage you do. If youdo not have beeswax, you believe your weapon has been sharpened,but it has not and will do only normal damage. If you have used thisspell successfully before, you have now used all your beeswax.Otherwise you have used half your original portion.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 4and choose again.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Return to 201and choose again.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. There is no such spell as this. Turn to 64.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. Unfortunately, there is no such spell asthis and the time you have wasted on casting it leaves you no time toplan another escape. The boulder crushes vou + Your journey hasended here . . .;999
Deduct 4 stamina points* The Manticore is in the opposite passagepreparing to pounce at you. You cast your spell as it leaps and it roarsloudly as it hits your invisible wall in mid-flight! Using your control,you fence it in securely, allowing you to grab the Svinn girl and runfrom the cave* Turn to 456.;999
Deduct 4 stamina points* The creature stops in its tracks and youorder it to return to the woods from where it came. Having escapedthe creature you may return to your original reference.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You wait for the spell to take effect andyou begin to hear a voice from within. The mysterious voice is tellingyou that your safest bet is to avoid this door and leave the mine. If youtake heed of this warning, turn to 144. If you wish to continue tryingthe door, turn to 268 and choose again.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cannot cast this spell as you do nothave the Bracelet of Bone it requires. In actual fact, you cannot cast an yspell when your hands are bound (remember this in future). Turn to 112.;999
Deduct 5 stamina points. You cast the spell but nothing happens.Return to 220 and choose again.;999
Deduct 1 stamina point. You cast your spell but nothing happens.Return to 117 and choose again.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast the spell and begin to grow tothree times your normal size. The night creature stops in its tracks.You may, if you wish, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, the beast takesflight and runs back into the woods. If you are Unlucky, or if you didnot Test your Luck , the creature continues to attack but you maydouble your skill score as you attack it. Return to 123.;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast this spell and consider bothdirections. Inside your mind, you begin to fed differently when youface through the door and when you face back into the room. Lookingthrough the door, a hot sweat comes over your face, and looking backinto the room at your entrance door, this feeling subsides and you feelcalm. Will you press on ahead through the door (turn to 6) or retraceyour steps through the room (turn to 120)?;999
Deduct 2 stamina points. You cast the spcl! and a darkness descendsover the room. The Spirit calls out to you, 'You cannot escape fromme, mortal!' But under the cover of darkness, you have slipped out ofthe hut. You leave the village. Turn to 196.;999
